{{More images}}{{Infobox video
| type = [[Mojang cinematic]]
| production = [[Element Animation]]
| date = March 22, 2025
| length = 2:43
| image = Latest masterpiece.jpg
| next = [[Spring to Life - Official Minecraft Trailer]]
| next2 = [[Happy Ghast Music Video]]
| prev = [[The Monster in the Woods]]
}}'''A Wandering Trader Springs to Life!''' is is an animated short made to promote the [[Spring to Life]] game drop, featured during [[Minecraft LIVE – March 2025|Minecraft LIVE - March 2025]]. The video follows a wandering trader who walks along a lot of new features included in the update.

== Summary ==
A [[wandering trader]] and their trader llamas are trotting down a [[Snowy peaks|snowy peak]], excited. Emerging in a [[meadow]], they begin to dance, pointing towards [[wildflowers]] and sniffing them. They appear in [[savanna]], pointing at a warm [[chicken]] and shoving their head up towards its backside as it hatches a [[Brown Egg|brown egg]]. They then walk up to a [[ruined portal]] in a [[Bamboo Jungle|bamboo jungle]], pulling a [[lodestone]] out of its [[chest]]. Emerging in a [[plains]] biome, the trader is stumped by a [[bush]].

Appearing in a desert badlands intersection, the trader continues pointing, now at [[tall dry grass]]. They peek out of a hole in a frozen lake and sneakily draw attention to a cold [[pig]], which it notices. The trader next appears in a [[taiga]] [[village]], showing off incredible teleportation abilities to point at a confused [[cartographer]]. The three companions venture forward, only to notice another bush.

Now in a [[swamp]], the trader tries shaking [[Steve]]'s [[baked potato]], to their utter confusion. Returning to the [[ice]], the trader skates past a cold [[cow]] and somehow ends up upside down. Their next stop is on top of several [[cacti]], severely injuring the trader so they can point at a [[cactus flower]]. They then find another bush on the way to a [[Cherry Grove|cherry grove]], before getting infatuated with a falling leaf from an [[oak]] [[tree]], ramming into it.

The trader falls down, seriously injured, and lays confused as they enter the darkest recesses of their mind. The song of the video changes to a heavy metal sound, as several mobs manifest out of leaves to bob their heads to the sounds of insanity. In the real world, Steve is chopping down another tree, but notices the sounds of rock coming from the trader's unconscious body, as their llamas try to wake them up. They are concerned, while Steve is just baffled and moves on with their errand. Back inside the mindscape, the trader is in a trance, bobbing with the memories until they notice the same leaf from before.

Chasing after the leaf, they almost lose it to [[lava]], before it flies up towards several monsters. After a beat, they also begin rocking out, not attacking anyone. The leaf gets stuck on a [[grass block]], as the terrain begins to shift and break apart. Rushing to retrieve the leaf, the trader fights against rising terrain, accidentally killing a chicken by pushing it into lava. As a ginormous tree begins to break apart, the trader manages to reclaim the leaf, but not before it shatters into a million other leaves, creating a harmonious light show. The trader wakes up, realizing that Steve had just chopped the tree they hit. They continue dancing to the original song, acting as if nothing happened.

=== Characters ===
{{Columns-list|* {{EntityLink|Brown Trader Llama}}
* {{EntityLink|Chicken}}
* {{EntityLink|Cold Chicken}}
* {{EntityLink|Cold Cow}}
* {{EntityLink|Cold Pig}}
* {{EntityLink|Cow}}
* {{EntityLink|Creeper}}
* {{EntityLink|id=villager-desert-farmer|Farmer#Desert|Desert Farmer}}
* {{EntityLink|Firefly|link=Firefly Bush}}
* {{EntityLink|Pig}}
* {{EntityLink|Skeleton}}
* {{EntityLink|Spider}}
* {{EntityLink|Steve}}
* {{EntityLink|id=villager-taiga-cartographer|Cartographer#Taiga|Taiga Cartographer}}
* {{EntityLink|Wandering Trader}}
* {{EntityLink|Warm Chicken}}
* {{EntityLink|Warm Cow}}
* {{EntityLink|Warm Pig}}
* {{EntityLink|White Sheep}}
* {{EntityLink|White Trader Llama}}
* {{EntityLink|Zombie}}|colwidth=20em}}

== Quotes ==
{{Quote|A wandering trader explores the features of our Spring to Life game drop in this mind-bending animation from Element Animation!
|YouTube video description}}

== Videos ==
{{YT|kpiK4dAb-Tk}}{{YT|Nv7rjtM8Rsk}}

== Trivia ==

* The wandering trader from this video reappears in the [[Villager News]] short [[HAS IT HAPPENED TO YOU YET?]], established to have some sort of supernatural ability to control other villagers, even [[Villager No. 9]].

== Gallery ==

=== Screenshots ===
{{empty section}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox cinematics}}
{{Navbox event|segments}}
[[Category:Music videos]]
[[Category:Minecraft Live]]