{{distinguish|Survival}}{{For}}
'''Adventure''' is a [[game mode]] intended for player-created maps, limiting some of the gameplay in ''Minecraft''. In this mode, the player cannot directly destroy any blocks with any tools or place any blocks, in order to avoid spoiling adventure maps or [[griefing]] servers.

== Gameplay ==
Adventure mode is similar to [[Survival]] in that players receive damage from their environment, dying is possible, and players must manage hunger. However, it is different in many ways as well. {{IN|je}}, blocks can be destroyed only with an item/tool that has the <code>can_break</code> [[component]], and cannot be destroyed by the player's fist. Likewise, blocks require the <code>can_place_on</code> component to be placed. {{IN|be}}, similarly, <code>can_destroy</code> and <code>can_place_on</code> NBT tags are required to destroy and place blocks. 

However, players are able to make use of the environment in other ways - including interacting with mobs and other entities (for example, killing them), turning a redstone mechanism (such as a [[lever]]) on or off, and [[trading]] with villagers. Additionally, players are able to craft items as they normally would in any other game mode. Another feature is that players always spawn exactly on the world spawn point, no matter where it is - unlike Survival mode, where players can spawn anywhere within a certain grid.

Custom ''Minecraft'' maps make good use of Adventure mode, and many custom maps are set to this game mode; players cannot break blocks or place them, therefore disallowing them to destroy the map, or add anything to it that would ruin the map. Also, it is often used to protect various multiplayer servers from [[griefer]]s. [[Command block]]s are usually used in conjunction with Adventure mode, in servers and custom maps.

Players with the ability worldbuilder set to true can break and place blocks freely on Adventure mode.{{only|bedrock|education}}

A player can switch to Adventure mode from any other game mode by using the command {{cmd|gamemode adventure}} when commands are enabled.

== History ==
=== Development ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine||July 7, 2010|link=https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://notch.tumblr.com/post/779956568/the-rationale-for-redstone|Adventure mode, formerly '''Dungeon Mode''', was announced by [[Notch]] as a game mode to be available when the game is finished. Notch hinted at four players to compete, permadeath like in [[Hardcore]] mode making it rogue-like in nature,<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://www.gamebandits.com/news/pc/minecraft-1-9-hardcore-mode-bring-it-on-17345</ref> and a quest system with randomly generated maps/quests.<ref>http://www.gameinformer.com/b/features/archive/2011/06/14/notch-and-todd-howard-the-one-on-one-interview.aspx</ref>}}
}}

=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.3.1|dev=12w22a|Added Adventure mode, accessible through commands. It is still possible to craft in Adventure mode both with the 2×2 crafting grid in the player's inventory and with the full sized 3×3 [[crafting table]]. The player can still interact with blocks with an interface, such as [[chest]]s, [[dispenser]]s, [[crafting table]]s, [[furnace]]s and [[brewing stand]]s. The player can also go through [[portal]]s, but cannot activate one by using [[flint and steel]]; flint and steel can be used to activate [[TNT]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.4.2|dev=12w34a|Certain blocks can now be removed with the correct tools and all blocks can be placed.<ref>http://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/yp597/12w34a_snapshot_is_accessible_now/c5xplgu</ref>}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8|dev=14w02a|Block hitboxes no longer appear in Adventure mode if interaction with the block is impossible.
|Block destroying is now impossible by default. See [[/Before 1.8|here]] for the correct tools before this version.
|The {{nbt|list|CanDestroy}} NBT [[Item format|item tag]] can be used to determine which blocks can be allowed to be broken.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=14w06a|The {{nbt|list|CanPlaceOn}} NBT [[Item format|item tag]] can be used to determine which blocks a block can be placed on.<ref>{{cite|url=https://www.mojang.com/2014/02/minecraft-snapshot-14w06a/|archive=y|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w06b|website=Mojang.com|author=[[Dinnerbone]]|date=February 6, 2014}}</ref>}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w09a|Replaced the {{nbt|list|CanDestroy}} and {{nbt|list|CanPlaceOn}} NBT tags with the {{cd|can_break}} and {{cd|can_place_on}} [[data components]], respectively.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.1.0|dev=alpha 1.1.0.0|Added Adventure mode.
|By using {{cmd|give}}, items with <code>can_destroy</code> and <code>can_place_on</code> NBT tags can be acquired.}}
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.6.0|Player with ability worldbuilder true can break and place blocks freely on Adventure mode.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU19|xbone=CU7|ps3=1.12|psvita=1.12|ps4=1.12|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Adventure mode.
|Certain blocks can be removed with the correct tools and all blocks can be placed.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== See also ==
* [[Tutorial:Adventure survival|A guide on how to survive in Adventure mode]]
*[[Tutorial: Survival in Adventure mode (version 1.7.10)|A guide to survival in Adventure mode (version 1.7.10)]]

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox game modes}}

[[Category:Game modes]]

[[de:Abenteuermodus]]
[[es:Aventura]]
[[fr:Aventure]]
[[it:Avventura]]
[[ja:アドベンチャー]]
[[ko:모험 모드]]
[[lzh:勇]]
[[nl:Avontuur]]
[[pl:Tryb przygodowy]]
[[pt:Aventura]]
[[ru:Приключение]]
[[th:ผจญภัย]]
[[uk:Пригода]]
[[zh:冒险模式]]