{{wip}}
This page lists vanilla animal mobs that appeared in the [[Minecraft Mini-Series]], but no are exclusive and in most cases are not important to the plot.

== Cave Spider ==

== Chicken ==

== Cow ==

== Donkey and Llama ==
{{Infobox character
| title = Donkey and Llama
| image = MCMS Donkeys And llamas.jpg
| first_appearance = [[The Challenge of Ice and Magma]]
}}
'''Donkeys''' and '''Llamas''' in [[pink carpet]]s appeared when [[CommuniKate]] and the members of the tree remaining teams rode to the challenge on two donkeys and a caravan of llamas.

== Horse ==
{{Infobox character
| title = Horse
| image = MCMS Horses.jpg
| first_appearance = [[The First Night]]
}}
Dark brown '''Horses''' with white fields appeared when the series introduced [[CommuniKate]] and [[Zed]] to viewers. In one shot, they were riding two horses.

== Polar Bear ==
{{Infobox character
| title = Polar Bear
| image = MCMS Polar Bears.jpg
| first_appearance = [[The Challenge of Ice and Magma]]
}}
'''Polar Bears''' appeared when and from time to time was seen on background. At the end of the episode, [[Zed]] was seen in the background playing with the polar bears.

== Wolf and Pig ==
{{Infobox character
| title = Wolf and Pig 
| image = MCMS Abandoned Farm2.jpg
| residence = Haunted farm
| first_appearance = [[The Well Wisher (episode)|The Well Wisher]]
}}
'''Wolf''' and '''Pig''' appeared when players came to the Abandoned Farm. The Wolf and Pig appear as background animals until sunset. However, at night, they transform into the [[Farm Monsters|Skeleton Pig]] and the [[Farm Monsters|Wolfman]].

== Sheep ==

== Spider ==

== Squid ==
{{Infobox character
| title = Squid
| image = MCMS Squid.jpg
| first_appearance = [[The First Night]]
}}
A '''Squid''' appeared when [[CommuniKate]] and [[Zed]] were sailing boats to the [[command block]].

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Mini-Series mobs}}
{{Navbox Mini-Series}}