{{stub}}
{{Infobox person
|title          = Anton Albiin
|image          = Anton Albiin.jpg
|imagesize      = 
|real_name      = Anton Albiin
|date_of_birth  = 
|occupation     = Customer support agent
|nationality    = Swedish
|languages      = 
|website        = 
|known_for      = 
|also_known_as  = 
|twitter        = 
|wiki_name      = 
|minecraft_name = 
}}

'''Anton Albiin''' is a former member of the [[Mojang Studios]] customer support team. He left the company in March 2013.

== Career ==
* Customer Service Team since February 2012.
* Analyst/Project Manager for a video game from July to December 2011.
* Employee for events, performing various tasks according to customer demand (IT sector) from October 2010 to November 2011.
* Sports coach from June 2010 to August 2010.
* Studied at Stockholm University, and previously at Stockholm International College.

== Trivia ==
* His Twitter handle ''Ett Glas Vatten'' means ''A glass of water'' in Swedish, and his Twitter avatar is a ghost of {{wikipedia|Pac-Man}} in a glass of water.
* He's trilingual: he speaks Swedish, English and Spanish.
* He loves video games and often shows snapshots of his acquisitions {{wikipedia|PlayStation|PlayStation 1}} on [https://twitter.com/EttGlasVatten his Twitter] (deleted).

== Personal pages ==
* <u>Facebook</u>: https://www.facebook.com/anton.albiin
* <u>Twitter:</u> @EttGlasVatten (deleted)

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox employees|former}}

[[cs:Anton Albiin]]
[[de:Mojang Kundenbetreuung#Anton Albiin]]
[[es:Anton Albiin]]
[[fr:Anton Albiin]]
[[it:Anton Albiin]]
[[ja:Anton Albiin]]
[[lzh:安敦阿勒賓]]
[[nl:Anton Albiin]]
[[pl:Mojang Studios#Byli pracownicy]]
[[ru:Антон Альбин]]
[[zh:Anton Albiin]]