{{about|materials of armor|tiers of tools and weapons|Tiers|materials of blocks|Materials}}
'''Armor materials''' refer to the material that an [[armor]] item uses.

== Materials ==
There are currently eight armor materials in the game: leather, copper, chainmail, iron, gold, diamond, netherite, and turtle. The armor material of an item determines its durability multiplier, armor values, enchantability, sound events, toughness, knockback resistance, and repair items.

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center" data-description="Tiers"
! rowspan="2" width="30" |Material Name
! rowspan="2" width="30" |[[Durability]]<ref group="n" name="durability">The durability multiplier multiplies each item slot's base durability. The base values are: 11 for head, 16 for chest, 15 for legs, 13 for feet. The durability of the item is the durability multiplier for its material times the base value for the armor slot it goes in.</ref>
! colspan="4" |[[Defense Points]]
! rowspan="2" |[[Enchantability]]
! rowspan="2" |[[Toughness]]
! rowspan="2" width="30" |KR<ref group="n">[[Knockback (mechanic)#Knockback resistance|Knockback resistance]]</ref>
! rowspan="2" |[[Unit repair|Repair Item]]
! rowspan="2" |Sound Event & Sounds
|-
!Head<!--These names are taken from the code and reflect equip slots, don't replace with helmet, etc.-->
!Chest
!Legs
!Feet
|-
!Leather
|5
|1
|3
|2
|1
|15
|0
|0
|{{ItemLink|Leather}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_leather}}
{{sound||Equip leather1.ogg|Equip leather2.ogg|Equip leather3.ogg|Equip leather4.ogg|Equip leather5.ogg|Equip leather6.ogg}}
|-
!Copper
|11
|2
|4
|3
|1
|8
|0
|0
|{{ItemLink|Copper Ingot}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_copper}}
{{sound||Equip copper1.ogg|Equip copper2.ogg|Equip copper3.ogg|Equip copper4.ogg|Equip copper5.ogg|Equip copper6.ogg}}
|-
!Chainmail<ref group="n" name="chain">Referred to as both "chain" and "chainmail" in the code.</ref>
|15
|2
|5
|4
|1
|12
|0
|0
|{{ItemLink|Iron Ingot}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_chain}}
{{sound||Equip chain1.ogg|Equip chain2.ogg|Equip chain3.ogg|Equip chain4.ogg|Equip chain5.ogg|Equip chain6.ogg}}
|-
!Iron
|15
|2
|6
|5
|2
|9
|0
|0
|{{ItemLink|Iron Ingot}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_iron}}
{{sound||Equip iron1.ogg|Equip iron2.ogg|Equip iron3.ogg|Equip iron4.ogg|Equip iron5.ogg|Equip iron6.ogg}}
|-
!Turtle<ref group="n" name="turtle">Although the turtle material is currently used only by [[turtle shell]]s, it has unused protection values for other armor slots.</ref>
|25
|2
|6
|5
|2
|9
|0
|0
|{{ItemLink|Turtle Scute}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_turtle}}
{{sound||Equip turtle shell.ogg}}
|-
!Gold
|7
|2
|5
|3
|1
|25
|0
|0
|{{ItemLink|Gold Ingot}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_gold}}
{{sound||Equip gold1.ogg|Equip gold2.ogg|Equip gold3.ogg|Equip gold4.ogg|Equip gold5.ogg|Equip gold6.ogg}}
|-
!Diamond
|33
|3
|8
|6
|3
|10
|2
|0
|{{ItemLink|Diamond}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_diamond}}
{{sound||Equip diamond1.ogg|Equip diamond2.ogg|Equip diamond3.ogg|Equip diamond4.ogg|Equip diamond5.ogg|Equip diamond6.ogg}}
|-
!Netherite
|37
|3
|8
|6
|3
|15
|3
|0.1
|{{ItemLink|Netherite Ingot}}
|{{cd|item.armor.equip_netherite}}
{{sound||Equip netherite1.ogg|Equip netherite2.ogg|Equip netherite3.ogg|Equip netherite4.ogg}}
|-
|}
<references group="n"/>

== Affected items ==
All [[helmet]]s, [[chestplate]]s, [[leggings]], and [[boots]] use their respective armor materials. [[Turtle shell]]s use the turtle material.

== Other mechanics ==
Other mechanics in the game use these materials for various purposes.<!--Only add things that directly call the armor material in code-->
* [[Piglin]]s are neutral towards players wearing gold armor.
*Players and other entities wearing leather armor do not freeze when in [[powder snow]], and do not fall through powder snow when wearing leather boots.

== See also ==
* [[Tiers]]
* [[Materials]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox gameplay}}

[[ja:防具材料]]
[[pt:Materiais de armadura]]
[[ru:Материалы брони]]
[[uk:Матеріали обладунків]]
[[zh:盔甲材料]]