{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.5.0
| edition = editor
| type =
| date = December 13, 2023
| client = 1.20.60.23
| prevparent = 0.4.0
| prev = 0.4.11
| next = 0.5.1
| nextparent = 0.6.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.5.0''', also known as the '''Edit/Test Update''', is an alpha release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on December 13, 2023, which adds new line tool and navigation record system.<ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/22307322045197</ref><ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/159</ref>

== Additions ==
'''[[API]]'''
* Added new bindings and support for scripts to be able to push a TypeScript object as a payload on to the transaction stack, and register a set of handler functions which will receive the payload when the transaction system receives an undo or redo event.
* Added an export for {{cd|stringFromExtension}} so that it can be used in both internal and external Creator extensions.
'''Navigation System'''
* A Navigation record system has been added to Editor.
* Records are automatically created if the Player is more than 5 blocks away from the current head record (or in a different dimension) with a velocity of 0 and the last record was created at least 5 seconds ago.
* {{key|Ctrl+[}} moves the head back one Navigation record and teleports the Player to that record's location.
* {{key|Ctrl+]}} moves the head forward one record and teleports the Player to that location.
* {{key|Ctrl+K}} manually creates a record.
* Navigation records can be output to the Log panel via a menu item under the View top menu.
'''Line Tool'''
* A new line tool is added to the Editor.
* Freeform, fixed distance and adjacent face cursor selection.
* Block fill selection dropdown.
* Surface contour option to follow solid surface.
* The controls are as follows:
** First left mouse click starts a line.
** Second left mouse click completes a line segment.
** A third left mouse click removes previous line segment.
** {{key|Shift}} + second left mouse click continues with a new line segment from the end of the previous line.
** {{key|Ctrl}} + left mouse click starts a new line.
** The line selection can be filled either through the button on the tool panel or {{key|Enter}} key.
** {{key|Ctrl + D}} removes all line segments.
** The placed blocks can be removed or reran through the undo ({{key|Ctrl+Z}}) and redo ({{key|Ctrl+Y}}) actions.
'''Other'''
* Editor Playtest pane now supports setting time of day and weather when testing levels, as well as minor tweaks to the layout. Time in the Playtest pane supports either Minecraft time (0-23999) or 24hr time (00:00-23:59).

== Changes ==
'''[[API]]'''
* Default block for BlockType in Selection tool is now 'grass'.
'''Other'''
* Scripted property panes will now be scrollable once they reach a certain height.
* Property options in the play/test pane retain their values when the game reloads.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|alpha}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.5.0]]
[[ru:0.5.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.5.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]