{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.11024.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.110.24
| image = Bedrock 1.21.110.24.png
| build = 35969134
| editorver = 1.0.8
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952111024 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962111024 (x86, 34)<br />
972111024 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982111024 (x86_64, 34)
| date = August 12, 2025
| server = 1.21.110.24
| serverdl = '''Server'''
*[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.110.24.zip Windows]
*[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.110.24.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.111
| prevparent = 1.21.101
| prev = Preview 1.21.110.23
| next = Preview 1.21.110.25
| nextparent = 1.21.112
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.110.24''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.110.24''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.111]]{{note|1.21.110 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of 1.21.111.|name=1.21.111}}, released on August 12, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/38757295608077-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-110-24|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.110.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 12, 2025}}</ref> which fixes some bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Copper Torch]]'''
* The crafting recipe now produces 4 copper torches instead of 1.
{{Crafting
|B1 = Copper Nugget
|B2 = Coal; Charcoal
|B3 = Stick
|Output = Copper Torch, 4
|ignoreusage = 1
|type = Decoration block
}}

'''[[Shelf]]'''
*Updated shelf block model to remove overlapping texture UVs.

'''[[Wall]]'''
*Prevented wall blocks from connecting to crimson fungus, warped fungus and bamboo.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Copper Golem]]'''
*The copper golem will now queue next to the chest or copper chest when it is opened by a player.
*The copper golem will now look towards the container it is walking towards.
*Decorative flowers can now be planted on them by [[iron golem]]s.
** These flowers can be removed with [[shears]].
** Drop upon turning into a [[Copper Golem Statue|statue]].

'''[[Iron Golem]]'''
*They will sometimes plant a decorative flower onto a nearby copper golem.

=== General ===
'''UI'''
*Updated the Marketplace Pass chevron on tiles and the purchase buttons to have the correct scaling.
*Resized the icons on the marketplace sidebar to match the icon's proper size.
*Resized the icons on the inventory category selection to match the icon's proper size.
*Added a properly sized "My Library" button for the top bar to use.
*Changed a couple locations where the information bulb appears to be the correct resolution.
*Updated the Marketplace error animations to display at the correct resolution.
*Added new icons for the Sale banners to fit the pixelated style of the UI.

=== Technical ===
'''AI Goals'''
*Transport Items Goal
**Mobs with the goal will now queue when players are interacting with their target container if {{cd|allow_simultaneous_interaction}} is {{cd|true}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the Beta APIs [[experimental]] toggle.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
:{{cd|@minecraft/server}}
*Added {{cd|Dimension.getBiome(location: Vector3)}} which can be used to locate the biome of a given location.
*Added {{cd|Entity.getBlockStandingOn(options?: GetBlocksStandingOnOptions): Block | undefined}} method to {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|Entity.getAllBlocksStandingOn(options?: GetBlocksStandingOnOptions): Block[];}} methods to {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|GetBlocksStandingOnOptions}} interface:
**Optional parameter {{cd|blockFilter?: BlockFilter}} filters the block being returned.
**Optional parameter {{cd|ignoreThinBlocks?: boolean}} determines if blocks of height 0.2 or lower are ignored.
*Added method {{cd|Camera.setCameraWithEase(cameraPreset: string, easeOptions: EaseOptions): void}} to {{cd|beta}}.

'''General'''
*Adding custom biomes to a world that already has custom biomes is more stable now.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.110.24 Preview
|;old
|63099|Arrow icon in furnace still appears filled after smelting an item
|189611|Copper block group order in creative inventory is wrong
|220172|Using right click to equip armor while aiming at an entity will create a ghost item in hand
|222162|Music Disc "Tears" audio is not categorized as "Jukebox/Note Blocks" when played from a jukebox
|223747|Copper golems make equipping sounds when picking up equippable items
|223867|You can hear the sounds of the copper golems from too far
|223966|The closing sound of copper chests isn't perfectly synced with their animations
|224011|Copper chest opening and closing sounds are too loud
|224504|Music Disc "Lava Chicken" audio is not categorized as "Jukebox/Note Blocks" when played from a jukebox
|;dev
|225265|When pick blocking the copper golem statue will select incorrect data.
|225461|Observers do not detect shelf contents changing
|otherissuescount=6}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed the copper torch recipe only giving one torch instead of four.
*Fixed an issue where the control scheme set via control scheme commands would not be retained if a later-activated camera did not support it. The scheme will now persist as intended until explicitly cleared via {{cmd|controlscheme clear}}, beginning since base game version 1.21.110.
*Fixed block breaking texture being double the size for shelf blocks.
*Fixed an issue preventing {{cmd|place}} from working correctly in flat worlds.
*Fixed an issue where using {{cmd|reload}} in the command console throws a {{cd|Gametest}} error if using the {{cd|GameTest.setAfterBatchCallback}} method.
*Fix for biome music component being removed from some biomes.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.111 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.110.24]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.110.24]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.110.24]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.110.24 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.110.24]]