{{Infobox version
|title=v1.13.0
|vernum=1.13
|image=BE 1.13.0 Banner.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.13.0.png
|edition=Bedrock
|name=
|date=October 29, 2019<ref name="website">{{Mcnet|foxes--suspicious-stew--and-more-bedrock0|Foxes, Suspicious Stew and more now in Bedrock!|October 29, 2019|Ash Parrish}}</ref>
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.13.0.34.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.13.0.34.zip Linux]
|server=1.13.0.34
|internal='''Windows 10''': 1.13.34.0
|prevparent=1.12.0
|prev=1.12.1
|next=1.13.1
|nextparent=1.14.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/1.13 releases}}

'''1.13.0''', the fifth experimental release of '''[[Village & Pillage]]''', is a major update for {{el|be}} released on October 29, 2019.<ref name="release">{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360035247792|title=Minecraft 1.13.0 (Bedrock)|date=October 29, 2019}}</ref> It focuses on adding the final remaining [[Village and Pillage]] features that were not included in previous updates, along with some other features, including a [[character creator]], and makes even more improvements to map-making and [[commands]].

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Dead Tube Coral
|Dead Brain Coral
|Dead Bubble Coral
|Dead Fire Coral
|Dead Horn Coral
|Wither Rose
|Light Block
|Structure Void BE
|Suspicious Stew
|Fox Spawn Egg Revision 1
}}

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dead coral]]'''
* A dead variant of coral that is made when coral is placed on the surface or does not have [[water]].
* Can be placed on top of [[block]]s.

'''[[Flowers]]'''
* Added the [[wither rose]].
** Drops from mobs killed by the [[wither]].
** Inflicts the [[Wither effect]] to nearby [[player]]s and [[mob]]s.
** Can be crafted into [[black dye]].

'''[[Light block]]s'''
* Are available only with [[commands]].
* Supports auxiliary data from 0 to 15 for [[light]] level.

'''[[Note block]]s'''
* Added 11 new note block sounds:
** {{BlockLink|Bone block}} = Xylophone
** {{BlockLink|Block of gold}} = Bell
** {{BlockLink|Clay|link=Clay (block)}} = Flute
** {{BlockLink|Packed ice}} = Chime
** {{BlockLink|Wool|id=white-wool}} = Guitar
** {{BlockLink|Block of iron}} = Iron Xylophone
** {{BlockLink|Soul sand}} = Cow Bell
** {{BlockLink|Pumpkin|Pumpkin}} = Didgeridoo
** {{BlockLink|Block of emerald}} = Bit
** {{BlockLink|Hay bale}} = Banjo
** {{BlockLink|Glowstone}} = Pling

'''[[Structure void]]'''
* It is an intangible [[block]] used to indicate to the [[structure block]]s that certain [[air]] blocks can be overridden by previously existing blocks in the destination.
** Intended to be a replacement for the function [[barrier]] blocks used to convey (during early development), so they can form part of the structure itself.
* They are invisible and have a small hitbox.
** They are visible only when they are inside a structure being saved by a save [[structure block]]s and the toggle option "show invisible blocks" is true.
** Additionally, any placed structure void instantly becomes visible when the player holds the item in their hand, similar to the barrier.
* Allows for empty spaces in a structure.
** Unlike [[air]], it does not overwrite [[block]]s where it is loaded.
** Example: If the [[player]] loads a 2 block high structure with air at the top and a structure void at the bottom into a 2 block high area of stone, the top block becomes air but the bottom remains stone.
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Suspicious stew]]'''
* Can be crafted, milked from brown mooshrooms, found in [[shipwreck]] supply [[chest]]s, or bought from farmer [[villager]]s.
* When consumed, gives a [[status effect]] depending on what [[flower]] it was made from, or a random effect if found in a shipwreck or bought from a farmer villager.

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Added [[fox]] spawn egg.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Brown mooshroom]]'''
* A variant of the mooshroom that spawns when a red mooshroom is hit by [[lightning]].
** Can be fed [[flower]]s then milked for a [[suspicious stew]].

'''[[Fox]]es'''
* Spawn as red foxes in snowless [[taiga]] biomes, and as snow foxes in snowy taiga biomes 
* Can be bred with [[sweet berries]]. 
** The newborn fox trusts and defends the [[player]].
* Can pick up and carry [[item]]s in their mouths.
* May eat and drop what they are carrying.
* [[Wolf|Wolves]] and polar bears attack them.
*Attack chickens and rabbits.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Village]]s'''
* Readded abandoned ([[zombie]]) villages, but with [[Village & Pillage]] architecture.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Achievements]]'''
* Added a new achievement:
** ''Time for Stew'' - Give someone a suspicious stew (20G)

=== Command format ===
* Added tab-complete for writing coordinate [[commands]].
* Added new {{code|PersistComponent}} command for [[mob]] persistence.
* Improved many map-making commands.{{more info}}
* Added {{cd|nameTag}} argument to {{cmd|summon}}, enabling summoning of entities with a name.

=== General ===
'''[[Character creator]]'''
* Allows the player to personalize their avatar in many ways, including body size and shape, limb replacement and tweaking of eyes, mouth, hair styles and colors, facial hair, and skin tones
** More than 100 items are available for free. There is also a range of custom accessories available for purchase.
* Traditional custom skins can still be imported as before on Windows 10 and mobile.

'''Accessibility'''
* Accessibility settings can now be accessed from in-game chat and has been revamped.
* Added a new option in Accessibility settings that allows users to not auto-enable Text-To-Speech when their platform has it enabled.

'''Chat'''
* Added the ability to disable the chat prompt after entering the world.
* Added the ability to change chat color and font.

'''Fonts'''
* Added a new font that can be seen in some menus. 

'''[[Credits]]'''
* Added game credits.
** These can be viewed after defeating the [[ender dragon]], and also through a new button found in the Profile Settings menu.

'''General'''
* Added PlayStation-related assets and translation strings into the game files.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Coral]]'''
* Can now be placed on surface [[air]], but turns to dead coral if it has no [[water]].

'''[[Grass path]]'''
* Can now be found in the [[creative]] [[inventory]].

'''[[Item frame]]s'''
* Can now be placed on the top and bottom of [[block]]s.

'''[[Structure block]]s'''
* Added Save and Load behind the [[Experimental Gameplay]] toggle.
* Added new textures and other functionalities.

=== Items ===
'''[[Armor]]'''
* Worn armor no longer turns red when a [[player]] or [[mob]] takes [[damage]].

'''[[Turtle egg]]s'''
* Now have 2D textures in the [[inventory]].

'''[[Map]]s'''
* Locked maps now have a unique inventory icon.

=== Living Entities ===
'''[[Armor stand]]s'''
* Now have a smoother animation when changing poses.

'''[[Camera]]'''
* Can no longer be obtained with the {{cmd|give}} [[command]]s.
* Added functionality. Screenshots took by the camera can now be saved into the {{cd|screenshots}} folder.

'''[[Fish]]'''
* Now drop [[experience]] when killed.

'''[[Illager captain]]s'''
* The player now correctly receives the [[Bad Omen]] effect whenever the illager captain dies in combat with the player.

'''[[Player]]s'''
* Are now 1.8 [[block]]s tall. ({{bug|MCPE-31710}}).
* Default Steve, Alex and character creator skins can now blink.

'''[[Squid]]'''
* Can now spawn in [[river]]s.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Can now heal if they have [[bread]] in their [[inventory]].
* Master-level farmers can now sell [[suspicious stew]]. ({{bug|MCPE-51215}}).
* Cartographer [[trade]]s now require 11 [[glass panes]] instead of 10.
* Villager trade levels now match {{el|je}} with 5 profession level badges, rather than 3 level badges. ({{bug|MCPE-43206}})

=== General ===
* [[Player]]s attempting to sleep on [[villager]]-occupied [[bed]]s now succeed, kicking the villager off. 
* Improved performance.
* Added a message that informs players whether a Marketplace pack is compatible with their version of Minecraft (specifically if it includes [[block]]s from a newer version of the game).
* Minecraft on iOS no longer shows the "Do you want to Close Minecraft?" pop-up since iOS doesn't support that app behavior.
* Map-making and add-on improvements.

'''Map-making and [[add-on]]s'''
* New data-driven objects:
** [[Brewing stand]] potion recipes.
** Environment [[damage]] for entities.
** [[Turtle]] and [[lightning]] interactions.
** [[Pufferfish]] puffed states.
** [[Fishing rod|Fishing hooks]].
** [[Horse]] models and animations.
** [[Snow golem]] trail behavior.
** [[Dragon]] breath [[particles]].
** [[Guardian]] and [[elder guardian]] animation and rendering.
** Elder guardian spike animation.
** [[Sparkler]] particles ({{el|ee}}).
** [[Balloon]]s (Education Edition).
* Changed Breathable, RideTick, and Transformation systems to use ViewedEntityContext.
* Added {{cd|push}} component that determines whether an [[entity]] can be pushed.
* Added {{cd|persistent}} component that determines whether an entity should be persistent in the game world.
* Significantly increased the maximum {{cd|spawnRadius}} distance.
* [[Lever]]s now have their own [[block]] state.
* Pillar blocks now have their own block state instead of using some values of the direction block state.
* Actor Definition Events can now be triggered from scripts.
* Scripting logs can now be opened and viewed while the game is running.
* Added new scripting Actor [[tag]]s.
* Added '{{cd|container}}' scripting component for [[block]]s
* Added '{{cd|projectile_hit}}', {{cd|entity_hurt}}, {{cd|entity_sneak}}, {{cd|entity_attack}}, and {{cd|block_exploded}} scripting events.

'''How to Play '''
* How to Play menu improvements.
* Added a how to play section for [[structure block]]s.
* Updated the [[armor]] section so that it specifies that [[carved pumpkin]]s should be used as protection from [[endermen]].
* Updated the section about repairing [[elytra]], which now describes using [[phantom membrane]]s to repair them instead of [[leather]]. ({{bug|MCPE-41608}})
* Updated the section regarding [[raid]]s.
* Updated the section regarding host and [[player]] options. ({{bug|MCPE-28976}})
* Updated the section about taming [[cat]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-43490}})

'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Replaced the hanger button with a "Profile" button.
* Moved the "Achievements" button to the "Profile" screen.

'''[[RenderDragon]]'''
* Xbox One now uses the new rendering engine RenderDragon.<ref>{{ytl|tCMuu5F3m-Q|t=50m13s|What's New: Moar Beeeezzz! - Sept 12, 2019}}</ref>

'''[[Raid]]s'''
* [[Villager]]s and [[illager]]s now celebrate upon failure/completion of a raid, respectively.
* The [[player]] no longer receives [[Bad Omen]] when all villagers die or all [[bed]]s are destroyed during a raid.

'''[[Pillager patrol]]s'''
* Can now spawn in any [[biome]] except for [[mushroom fields]].
* Delay for patrols to spawn increased to 10-11 minutes, from 5-6 minutes.
* Now attack in swarms.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed several crashes that could occur when loading the game.
* Fixed a crash that could occur while navigating menus.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to create new world or when joining a multiplayer game.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when a player left a multiplayer game.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when signing into a Microsoft account.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when switching profiles on Xbox One.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game on Xbox One.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when typing certain characters onto a sign.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when exploring world templates.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when choosing certain skins.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when breaking a block underneath a detector rail.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when creating a new world using some Marketplace packs.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when exiting the game on Windows 10.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when approaching world spawn. ({{bug|MCPE-46686}})
* Fixed a crashing issue on iOS when relaunching the game with a global resource pack applied.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when accepting the storage permission on Android.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when resuming the game on Oculus Rift.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game on Oculus Rift.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when typing certain characters into chat. ({{bug|MCPE-44419}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur if a split-screen player left the game while an execute command targeted them in a function.
* Fixed a crash that could occur after a player left the game on 3 or 4 player split-screen on the "Wildlife: Jungle" map.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when leaving and rejoining a world whilst an adult panda is eating bamboo.
* Fixed a freezing issue that could occur when resuming the game on Windows 10 Mobile.
* Fixed a crashing issue that affected certain worlds when approaching spawn. ({{bug|MCPE-46686}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur after changing the file storage location on Android devices.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on low and mid-end Android devices.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to double-tap on an item on the beacon screen.
* Fixed a crash that could occur while downloading multiple Marketplace items at the same time on some iOS devices.
* Fixed a crash related to cached resources.

'''Performance'''
* Improved world launch time by optimizing network and resource tasks.
* Improved performance when opening the inventory.
* Several performance improvements regarding block rendering.
* Fixed a drop in performance when flying with elytra in the End.
* Optimized terrain light calculation.
* Optimized grass growth block ticking.

'''General'''
* The "We are being attacked!" and "I've got a bad feeling about this" [[achievements]] can once again be unlocked. ({{bug|MCPE-45060}})
* The "Renewable Energy" achievement is once again unlockable. ({{bug|MCPE-39661}})
* The "Where have you been?" achievement now unlocks correctly on Android.
* Maps are now drawn more quickly when exploring, meaning the "Map Room" achievement now unlocks more consistently. ({{bug|MCPE-27720}})
* Fixed some instances of skin selections not saving and reverting to Alex or Steve. ({{bug|MCPE-32089}})
* Fixed the "Multiplayer Restricted Skin!" error message that would pop up when trying to join a world before the skin had loaded in. (MCPE-48494)
* The world loading screen now closes once an acceptable amount of chunks have loaded. ({{bug|MCPE-44815}})
* Fixed issues related to unloaded [[chunk]]s that could appear in Realms and local worlds. ({{bug|REALMS-1553}})
* Partially fixed an issue that caused global resources not to be applied after relaunching the game.
* Fixed various text to speech issues.
* [[Player]]s can now switch between user accounts on Xbox One without restarting the game.
* Fixed the messaging when trying to import a world template created in a newer version.
* Fixed a controller issue when docking the Nintendo Switch.

'''Gameplay'''
* [[Player]]s in [[water]] are now knocked back by [[TNT]] explosions
* Split-screen players who join a world now spawn in the correct safe place and no longer spawn in the void.
* Fixed an issue that could cause some worlds to become corrupted during gameplay. ({{bug|MCPE-50496}})
* Players now properly receive stored XP from furnaces. ({{bug|MCPE-47324}})
* Eating when using a [[nether portal]] no longer causes players to teleport to random locations. ({{bug|MCPE-39147}})
* The player can once again open the [[inventory]] correctly while sitting in a [[boat]].
* Using [[bone meal]] on a [[flower]] now generates more flowers of that type around it, rather than just dandelions and poppies. ({{bug|MCPE-7979}})
* The player now correctly receives the Bad Omen effect whenever the illager captain dies in combat with the player.
* Fixed an issue with block updates on a waterlogged block triggering a redstone update in the same chunk.
* Fire charges launched from dispensers now ignite [[minecarts with TNT]].
* The damage sound is no longer heard when a player falls or lands in Creative mode. ({{bug|MCPE-515}})
* Corrected [[player]] [[sprinting|sprint]]/[[swimming|swim]] state when exiting [[water]].
* Fixed pitch issue with the camera that caused the player to walk backward when looking straight up.
* Players can now teleport on top of non-full or transparent [[block]]s when eating a [[chorus fruit]].
* The camera now rotates correctly when in third-person view.
* The player no longer keeps on rowing when opening the inventory during boat rides. ({{bug|MCPE-36522}})
* [[Arrow]]s hitting players underwater no longer play multiple hit sounds.
* [[Lightning]] from Channelling [[trident]]s now affect more than a single [[mob]] in a small area. ({{bug|MCPE-44393}})
* Lightning now strikes less frequently. ({{bug|MCPE-38768}})
* Arrows now destroy armor stands properly. ({{bug|MCPE-47785}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented players from moving while sneaking on top of [[shulker]]s and [[boat]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-44644}})
* Area of effect clouds such as Lingering Potions now work correctly if world is set to 'Always Day'. ({{bug|MCPE-39595}})

'''World generation'''
* [[Chest]]s that generate in desert temples now face the correct direction. ({{bug|MCPE-37393}})

'''Mobs'''
* Tweaked [[drowned]] despawning rules to help prevent too many being present in the world. ({{bug|MCPE-34032}})
** Drowned now despawn if the following conditions are met: The player is at least 54 blocks away, the drowned has not performed any actions in at least 30 seconds, and it is daytime.
* [[Iron golem]]s are no longer knocked back by explosions. ({{bug|MCPE-43662}})
* Fixed the sitting position for baby zombie jockeys.
* Fixed the death animation of [[spider]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-41417}})
* The [[wither]] once again has its blue shield.
* Lazy [[panda]]s no longer float above the ground when lying on their backs. ({{bug|MCPE-43164}})
* Baby [[pig]]s now turn into baby [[zombie pigmen]] when struck by [[lightning]]. ({{bug|MCPE-38134}})
* [[Pillager]]s now spawn around [[pillager outpost]]s more frequently. ({{bug|MCPE-43396}})
* Fixed [[player]] alignment to [[bed]]s when sleeping.
* [[Zombie]]s can no longer break [[iron door]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-43725}})
* Zombies once again spawn in [[cave]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-52743}})
* [[Village]] [[mob]]s (such as [[iron golem]]s and [[cat]]s) can no longer spawn inside of [[block]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-44442}}, {{bug|MCPE-41886}})
* [[Ravager]]s can now pathfind through [[water]].
* Cured [[zombie villager]]s now keep their trade level.
* Jockeys no longer get stuck trying to move to unreachable mounts.
* [[Mob]]s no longer break [[turtle egg]]s when mob griefing is disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-36245}})
* Mobs can now pathfind correctly through waterlogged blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-37005}})
* Mobs can now pathfind correctly on unlit [[campfire]]s.
* Mobs once again drop armor and equipment as loot. ({{bug|MCPE-48891}})
* Mobs no longer drop fully repaired [[weapon]]s as loot. ({{bug|MCPE-45953}})
* Leads now connect to mobs at the correct position.
* Mobs no longer attempt to path find over 1.5 [[block]] high obstacles. ({{bug|MCPE-45256}})
* [[Villager]]s now all go to sleep correctly at night.
* [[Creeper]]s no longer lose aggro when line of sight is broken briefly.
* [[Zombie]]s no longer get stuck on doors.
* Mobs standing on slabs are no longer immune to sunlight damage after reloading the world. ({{bug|MCPE-32822}})
* [[Witch]]es can no longer spawn in 1.8 high gaps. ({{bug|MCPE-45935}})
* Animal [[breeding]] cooldowns no longer reset after reloading the world.
* [[Endermen]] holding red [[sand]] no longer drop regular sand when killed. ({{bug|MCPE-25926}})
* Endermen are correctly affected by the [[Invisibility]] effect, when applied. ({{bug|MCPE-44492}})
* Fixed the held sword position for vex [[mob]]s.
* [[Entity]] hit and collision boxes no longer exist during mob death animations. ({{bug|MCPE-9999}})
* [[Wither skeleton]]s are no longer affected by the Wither effect. ({{bug|MCPE-46317}})
* Mobs and entities are no longer slowed when walking one block above ice. ({{bug|MCPE-13852}})
* Baby [[zombie]]s are now able to ride [[zombie pigmen]]. ({{bug|MCPE-20163}})
* Increased the speed that [[phantom]]s' wings flap. ({{bug|MCPE-42935}})
* [[Drowned]] on land now attack based on brightness levels rather than time of day.
* [[Dolphin]]s once again follow [[player]]s in [[boat]]s.
* [[Nether portal]]s now spawn zombie pigmen on Easy difficulty. ({{bug|MCPE-45934}})
* Fixed [[creeper]] farms by adjusting mob height spawning logic. ({{bug|MCPE-45935}})
* [[Stray]]s and [[skeleton]]s now show [[enchanting|enchanted]] [[bow]]s when held.
* [[Villager]]s now show angry [[particles]] when hit by a [[player]], even if they haven't been traded with yet. ({{bug|MCPE-29700}})
* [[Parrot]]s can now be picked in Creative mode using pick block.
* [[Mob]]s now attack the [[player]] correctly while standing on [[soul sand]].
* [[Villager]]s now close [[door]]s that have been opened by a player or redstone. ({{bug|MCPE-21946}})
* Farmers now correctly harvest [[crops]] when their [[inventory]] is not full. ({{bug|MCPE-47166}})
* Villagers now hide more consistently during a [[raid]].
* Fixed the "Toast" [[rabbit]] easter egg. ({{bug|MCPE-44510}})
* Updated mason trades.

'''Blocks'''
* [[Beacon]]s now play the correct ambient [[sound]]. ({{bug|MCPE-34413}})
* [[TNT]] no longer falls through [[block]]s when lit. ({{bug|MCPE-41313}})
* [[Lava]] now correctly affects [[mob]]s that come into contact with it. ({{bug|MCPE-45531}})
* Standing in a [[cauldron]] of lava now deals the correct amount of [[damage]] to [[player]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-39356}})
* Falling [[snow]] can no longer replace other blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-44613}})
* Using pick block on lit Redstone now gives the player the correct block. ({{bug|MCPE-43450}})
* [[Frosted ice]] no longer causes performance issues when it is waiting to melt underground. ({{bug|MCPE-39698}})
* [[Leaves]] collected with [[Silk Touch]] now stack correctly with other leaves of the same type. ({{bug|MCPE-32347}})
* Shulker boxes can no longer be placed in the same space as the player. ({{bug|MCPE-39674}})
* Wood blocks now have proper directional placement. ({{bug|MCPE-43367}})
* [[Jukebox]]es now stop playing music after being broken. ({{bug|MCPE-47587}})
* [[Furnace]]s now play all applicable [[sound]]s at the correct pitch. ({{bug|MCPE-43915}})
* The [[beacon]] block can now suffocate [[player]]s and [[mob]]s like other opaque blocks.
* [[Hopper]]s now pick up [[item]]s from above correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-31393}})
* [[Piston]]s now have the correct textures when placed in any direction. ({{bug|MCPE-38053}})
* [[Granite]], [[diorite]] and [[andesite]] can no longer be [[smelting|smelted]] into smooth stone. ({{bug|MCPE-45914}})
* Explosions no longer destroy and drop [[End gateway]] blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-47174}})
* [[Sneaking]] on [[redstone ore]] no longer triggers glow.
* [[Anvil]]s now take [[damage]] correctly after use.
* [[Water]] dispensed from a [[dispenser]] no longer breaks [[End portal]]s and gateways.
* Dispensers now place [[boat]]s correctly.
* Falling [[snow|snow layers]] no longer break [[block]]s in redstone contraptions. ({{bug|MCPE-49773}})
* [[Barrier block]]s no longer stop [[grass]] growth. ({{bug|MCPE-41262}})
* [[Farmland]] blocks once again prevent grass growing underneath.
* Breaking an extended [[piston]] in Creative mode no longer [[drops]] an [[item]]. ({{bug|MCPE-10853}})
* [[TNT]] can now be crafted from red sand, in addition to plain old regular sand.
* [[Campfire]]s can be doused with [[splash water bottle]]s only, to match {{el|je}}.
* [[Coarse dirt]] is no longer replaced with [[dirt]] when a [[tree]] is grown on top. ({{bug|MCPE-26215}})
* Invisible bedrock no longer emits stone [[particles]] when fallen on.

'''Items'''
* [[Button]]s no longer appear rotated in the hotbar. ({{bug|MCPE-11365}}, {{bug|MCPE-42584}})
* The durability bar for [[shield]]s now updates correctly when sustaining [[damage]]. ({{bug|MCPE-44788}})
* Enchanted books with three or more enchantments no longer always have Feather Falling IV and/or Blast Protection IV. ({{bug|MCPE-41944}})
* Items that have been smelted can now be crafted and stacked correctly for use in furnaces, stonecutters, etc. ({{bug|MCPE-47907}}, {{bug|MCPE-48421}}, {{bug|MCPE-47684}})
* Arrows cause sand and gravel to fall again. ({{bug|MCPE-18257}})
* [[Splash water bottle]]s once again deal [[damage]] to [[blaze]]s and [[endermen]]. ({{bug|MCPE-42589}})
* Fixed [[trident]] position issues when being held and thrown.
* Fixed [[Riptide]] tridents not propelling [[player]]s forward correctly.
* Loyalty tridents now return to the correct player after bouncing off a [[shield]]. ({{bug|MCPE-44225}})
* Equipment on [[armor stand]]s now renders correctly if the armor stand is affected by the Invisibility effect. ({{bug|MCPE-39779}})
* The LT controller button can once again be used to quickly equip or replace [[armor]]. ({{bug|MCPE-35579}})
* [[Player]]s are now able to use items like [[fishing rod]]s while aiming at nearby [[mob]]s.
* [[Nether wart]] now has a chance to [[drops|drop]] more [[item]]s when broken with [[Fortune]] [[tool]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-31107}})
* [[Fire Aspect]] [[sword]]s no longer set Creative players on [[fire]]. ({{bug|MCPE-14036}})
* Drinking [[sound]] for milk and potions now plays correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-38340}})
* [[Trapdoor]] items now have the correct [[inventory]] textures. ({{bug|MCPE-44214}})
* Six-sided wood block variants can now be [[smelting|smelted]] or used as [[furnace]] fuel. ({{bug|MCPE-47170}})
* Damaged elytra now have their own texture. ({{bug|MCPE-47758}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented certain [[item]]s not being suggested in the [[recipe book]] correctly.
* Items cooked on the [[campfire]] now stack together correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-47684}})
* Fixed the default recipe for [[bed]]s.
* [[Player]]s no longer lose items when moving stacks of items into a [[cartography table]].
* Changed how the [[bell]] item is held in the player's hand, so that it is held like an item rather than a [[weapon]]. ({{bug|MCPE-43638}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed an issue that could cause the home screen to show black corrupted textures after resuming the game on Android. ({{bug|MCPE-39031}})
* The [[player]] model is now visible again while sleeping on a [[bed]].
* [[Boat]] paddling animation now matches {{el|je}} and resynchronizes when paddling stops.
* Fixed an issue with water not rendering correctly on some servers. ({{bug|MCPE-46813}})
* Fix an issue that caused block [[entities]] (such as beds) to not render after suspending and resuming the game.
* [[Arrow]]s now render correctly when held by armor stands.
* [[Armor stand]]s and players can again wear [[helmet]]s with secondary layers.
* Fixed [[elytra]] position for skins that don't use the standard humanoid model.
* Fixed some graphical errors when launching the game on Oculus Rift.
* [[Flower]]s no longer become invisible in [[flower pot]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-40806}})
* Players no longer show the flying animation when using [[scaffolding]] while elytra are equipped.
* Improved the texture for the [[stonecutter]] with non-fancy graphics. ({{bug|MCPE-42487}})
* Tweaked first-person hand attack animations.
* Multiple [[block]]s no longer change color to black when moved by [[piston]]s.
* Tweaked the position of the [[shield]] when held in the off-hand to fix a minor texture clipping issue.
* Fixed hand animation when switching to empty hand from held [[item]].

'''User interface'''
* Accessibility color and contrast fixes and tweaks for dropdowns, buttons and the Play screen.
* The text to speech narrator now works correctly with punctuation in text boxes.
* Players using touch screens can no longer break blocks when using touch-and-hold to use a fishing rod.
* Chat instructions no longer appear on screen every time the player travels through a portal. ({{bug|MCPE-45073}})
* Removed duplicate and overlapping progress bars.
* Fixed the safe screen area prompt not appearing, when necessary, on certain devices.
* Keyboard inputs now work correctly when the game loads out of window focus.
* Fixed the "Open Chat" message for touch screen devices.
* Flight controls no longer show when sleeping in a bed in creative. ({{bug|MCPE-44928}})
* Fixed the inventory screens of some blocks not appearing on the first attempt after the block's state has changed, like hoppers and dispensers.
* The wither's health bar no longer disappears during the fight if the player moves away. ({{bug|MCPE-40881}})
* Using 'Place All' (Y) on the cartography table output slot now crafts only as many of the shown result possible.
* Joining a Realm through the 'Joinable Friends' list no longer shows world info. ({{bug|MCPE-47731}})
* The background tint of the player coordinates is now consistent with the chat background. ({{bug|MCPE-43791}})
* Tweaked the controller cursor position when auto-crafting with a full inventory.
* Obfuscated text once again works with the smooth font chat setting.
* Fixed duplicated 'Sign In' messages that were overlapping.
* The correct Marketplace Inventory items are now shown when switching between players.
* Global resource packs in Settings now update to the new chosen language.

'''[[Commands]]'''
* Execute detect command now uses local coordinates correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-29942}})
** Modified '{{cd|CommandPosition}}' so that an optional offset can be specified to move the rotation point in case of a local coordinate.
** Fixed the '{{cd|ExecuteCommand}}' detect option to correctly use an entity rather than a position so that it can use the entity orientation to calculate camera relative offsets.
* Using '{{cmd|spreadplayers}}' no longer permanently loads distant chunks.
* [[Powered rail]]s placed using '{{cmd|fill}}' now work correctly when powered by [[redstone]].
* Using '{{cmd|setblock}}' on a [[piston]] base no longer leaves an invisible piston arm.
* Cloned active [[mob spawner]]s now have an animated [[mob]] when placed. ({{bug|MCPE-23106}})
* The '{{cmd|clear}}' command once again works correctly with damageable [[item]]s.
* Running the "{{cmd|clear}}" command message now shows correct amount of items removed. ({{bug|MCPE-34750}})
* [[Carpet]] is now removed correctly when using the '{{cmd|clear}}' command.
* Using '{{cmd|clear @p item}}' now clears correctly auxiliary values.
* [[Piston]]s with data values 6 and 7 can no longer be placed using slash commands. ({{bug|MCPE-21558}})
* [[Player]]s can no longer use the '{{cmd|spawnpoint}}' command in [[the Nether]].
* Using the command '/@s[type=...]' now works correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-49766}})
* Fixed an error message that occurred when using the '{{cmd|help}}' command.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Fixed MoLang scripting errors that were being logged for older content.
* [[Endermen]] with modified behaviors can now be shot and damaged with projectiles.
* Loading packs with lots of custom [[item]]s now works correctly.
* Custom rideable entities now show the correct action hint when added.
* Fixed the positioning of [[particles]] that were showing correctly only when centered on screen.
* The '{{cd|timer}}' component once again functions on vanilla projectiles.
* Fixed an issue with the '{{cd|must_see_forget_duration}}' component not working.
* Fixed humanoid eating animation.
* Fixed the '{{cd|scale}}' component failing to scale certain [[entities]].
* Running the '{{cd|tick_world}}' component now removes ticking areas correctly and consistently.
* Added stone slab aliases to allow backward compatibility on add-on packs.
* The '{{cd|spawn_entity}}' component is now executed when an entity is being ridden.
* [[Ghast]]s no longer keep looking at [[player]]s if the behavior component has been removed.
* Fixed [[minecart]] rider rotation not being updated correctly in some packs.
* Particle UVs no longer include lines of textures next to the selected UV.
* Custom entities using '{{cd|nearest_attackable_target}}' now re-evaluate current target validity.
* Fixed mini bows rendering on all mobs other than players in scripting packs.
* The '{{cd|has_equipment}}' filter now works correctly with damageable [[item]]s.
* Fixed a scripting error that would appear when shooting arrows from a dispenser.
* When a global resource pack is deleted, it now removes itself from the active stack.
* Fixed unparented geometry on pre-1.8 [[guardian]]s.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|ZBSOWPLjNRA}}

== Trivia ==
* 1.13.0 had the most beta versions of any update to {{el|be}} prior to [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16]], with a total of 11 beta builds.
*In ''[[China Edition]]'', this update is called "Generation Update".

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.13.0]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]]
[[pl:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.13.0]]
[[ru:1.13.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0]]