{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.13.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.13.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.13<br>
|image=Bedrock 1.13.0.13.png
|parent=1.13.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' September 12, 2019
|prevparent=1.12.1
|prev=beta 1.13.0.9
|next=beta 1.13.0.15
|nextparent=1.13.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.13''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]], released on September 12, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360033322932-Minecraft-Beta-1-13-0-13-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.13 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=September 12, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''Screen size'''
* Added a new prompt to suggest that a player adjusts the screen safe zone, if necessary.

'''[[RenderDragon]]'''
* Xbox One now uses the new rendering engine RenderDragon.<ref>{{ytl|tCMuu5F3m-Q|t=50m13s|What's New: Moar Beeeezzz! - Sept 12, 2019}}</ref>

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* The game no longer crashes while typing out the execute command.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when a player leaves a multiplayer game. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur if a player tried to open chat just as they were leaving a multiplayer game.
* Light blocks with invalid auxiliary values no longer cause the game to crash. ({{bug|MCPE-51191}})

'''Performance'''
* Improved performance with animation optimizations.
* Devices with lower available memory now support the new note block sounds.
* Improved chunk loading performance when flying.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue where the main menu UI would not load in for some beta players on Xbox One. ({{bug|MCPE-50344}})
* Buried treasure chests can no longer spawn inside village structures.
* Fixed an issue that could cause some worlds to become corrupted during gameplay. ({{bug|MCPE-50496}})

'''Mobs'''
* Farmers now correctly harvest crops when their inventory is not full. ({{bug|MCPE-47166}})
* Turtles and tropical fish no longer drift downwards and swim at the bottom of the sea. 
* Villagers now hide more consistently during a raid.
* The player's left leg no longer slightly bob when is idle or looking around.
'''User interface'''
* Fixed the spacing between "Feedback" and "Save & Quit" buttons in the pause menu.  

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed the position of parrots sitting on the player's shoulder. 

'''Commands'''
* Using the command `@s[type=...]` now works correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-49766}})
* Obfuscated text now works with the smooth font chat setting.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Using "{{cd|lock_rider_rotation}}" now works correctly on players.
* Using "{{cd|yaw_speed}}" calculation now works correctly.
* Custom entities now get proper death messages.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.13]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.13]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.13]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.13]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.13]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.13 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.13]]