{{Infobox version
| edition = Bedrock
| image = Bedrock 1.18.20.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.18.20.23.png
| image3 = Bedrock 1.18.20.24.png
| type = Preview
| internal = ;Beta
'''Windows''': 1.18.2023.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.2023.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.20.23<br>
'''Preview'''
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.2024.70<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': 1.18.20.24<br>
| parent = 1.18.30
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox (Beta)''': February 2, 2022<br> '''Xbox (Preview)''': February 7, 2022
| prevparent = 1.18.12
| prev = beta 1.18.20.21
| next = Preview 1.18.20.26
| nextparent = 1.18.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.20.23''' (Windows, Android, Xbox) and '''Preview 1.18.20.24''' (iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.30]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.18.20 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.30|1.18.30]].<ref>[https://clips.twitch.tv/PunchyNastySwallowKappaClaus-2qjFzirVYrWnJPm9 1.18.20 rolled into 1.18.30]; CornerHard on Twitch - March 30, 2022</ref>}} released on February 2, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4423906361869|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.18.20.23 (Xbox / Windows / Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=February 2, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs. This is the first ever beta/''Preview'' to be labeled as "Preview".

Xbox would also receive the preview version on February 7, 2022.

== Changes ==
=== Technical ===
'''Commands'''
*The {{cmd|tickingarea}} command no longer modifies areas from entities with {{cd|tick_world}} component.

'''EatMobGoal'''
*{{code|EatMobGoal}} is now unable to start when the player is the target.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Wild Update", "Vanilla Experiments", and "Enable GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Frog Spawn]]'''
*Now breaks when pushed by a piston.
*Now destroyed when the water source beneath it is removed.
*Can now be placed on waterlogged blocks.
* Can no longer be placed above solid ground or underwater with the {{cmd|fill}} command.
*Now destroyed by falling blocks.

==== Items ====
'''[[Goat Horn]]s'''
*Now have a cooldown period every time they are used.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Frog]]'''
*Can now be tempted and bred using [[slimeball]]s.
*Adjusted Frog spawning in [[Swamp|Swamps]], weight 10, herd size 2-5.
'''[[Tadpole]]'''
* Health is now {{hp|6}}, instead of {{hp|4}}.

==== Technical ====
'''GameTest Framework'''
*Vector
**Added function length(): number- Returns the length of this vector
**Added function normalized(): Vector- Returns this as a normalized vector
**Added static function distance(a:Vector, b:Vector): number- Returns distance between two vectors
**Added static function lerp(a:Vector, b:Vector, t: number): Vector- Returns the linear interpolation between a and b using t as the control
**Added static function slerp(a:Vector, b:Vector, s: number): Vector- Returns the spherical linear interpolation between a and b using s as the control
**Added static function cross(a:Vector, b:Vector): Vector- Returns the cross product of these two vectors
**Added static function add(a:Vector, b:Vector): Vector- Returns the addition of these vectors
**Added static function subtract(a:Vector, b:Vector): Vector- Returns the subtraction of these vectors
**Added static function multiply(a:Vector, b:Vector): Vector- Returns the component-wise product of these vectors
**Added static function divide(a:Vector, b:Vector): Vector- Returns the component-wise division of these vectors
**Added static function multiply(a:Vector, b:number): Vector- Returns the product of this vector and a scalar
**Added static function divide(a:Vector, b:number): Vector- Returns the division of this vector and a scalar
**Added static function min(a:Vector, b:Vector): Vector- Returns a vector that is made from the smallest components of two vectors.
**Added static function max(a:Vector, b:Vector): Vector- Returns a vector that is made from the largest components of two vectors
*World
**Added function playSound(soundName: String, soundOptions: SoundOptions): void- plays a sound specified by the sound name, at a location, pitch, or volume as optionally specified in the SoundOptions argument
*EntityItemComponent
**Added component EntityItemComponentthat can be used to obtain an ItemStack from an item entity – e.g., getComponent(“item”).itemStack

== Fixes ==
'''Custom Skins '''
*Fixed custom skins not saving when leaving the Dressing Room.

'''Gameplay '''
*Fixed an issue where the Mending enchantment would not always correctly consume XP Orbs to repair ({{bug|MCPE-120119}})

'''Mobs'''
*Drowned can no longer spawn where the block light level is above 0 ({{bug|MCPE-150148}})

'''User Interface '''
*Fixed truncated label (in some languages) above 2x2 crafting grid in Pocket UI inventory screen
*Fixed the Create New World opt-in beta setting not persisting between play sessions

'''Vanilla Parity'''
*Cauldrons are now not fillable by dripstones that are below flowing water

'''Items'''
* Custom armor can now be equipped with the "Use" button when different armor is already equipped ({{bug|MCPE-125323}}).

'''Technical '''
*Fixed an issue where projectiles would 'bounce' off of Bells in strange ways ({{bug|MCPE-47847}}).
*Fixed Logical AND to evaluate before Logical OR, and for comparison operators to evaluate before equality operators 
**This is a Molang Versioned Change that only takes effect for Molang expressions in packs that use a min_engine_version of 1.18.20 or higher.
**For example A && B || Cnow evaluates as (A && B) || C and A < B == C > D now evalutes as (A < B) == (C > D).
*Fixed duplicate End Crystals spawning on top of End Spikes ({{bug|MCPE-147817}}).
*Fixed an issue in which actor properties would not always sync from the server to the client.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{Fnlist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.18.30 betas|0]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.20.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.20.23]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.20.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.18.20.24]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.20.23]]