{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.2.50.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.250.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.250.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.2.50<br>
|parent=1.14.20
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' December 18, 2019
|prevparent=1.14.1
|prev=
|next=beta 1.14.2.51
|nextparent=1.14.21
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.2.50''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.20]], released on December 18, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360037681052|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.2.50 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=December 18, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs. This is the final beta released in 2019.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.

'''General'''
* Classic skins in skin packs are now saved when reloading the game. ({{bug|MCPE-55278}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Projectiles can now be shot through the gap between two honey blocks.
* Tridents no longer bounce continuously on the sides of honey blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-53626}})
* Players no longer bounce when being pushed and pulled by honey blocks and pistons. ({{bug|MCPE-53815}})

'''Mobs'''
* Bees no longer fly in and out of a beehive or nest that is on fire. ({{bug|MCPE-53872}})

'''Map makers and add-on creators'''
* Fixed a bug that was preventing players from being teleported and rotated smoothly.
* The sensing component (used for ranged attacks) now calculates the view direction like it used to, making it so mobs can see their target on the y-axis. 
* Fixed an issue that could sometimes prevent behavior pack animations from working on Android. ({{bug|MCPE-56117}})
* Fixed the command order for riding custom entities on a Marketplace map.</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* This is the last Bedrock Edition beta to be released in 2019 as well as the 2010s decade.
* Beta 1.14.2.50 was released on the latest calendar date out of all beta builds, on December 18.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.2.50]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.2.50]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.2.50]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.2.50]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.2.50]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.2.50 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.2.50]]