{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.0.8
| edition = Editor
| type = 
| date = August 12, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.110.24|1.21.110.24]]
| prevparent = 1.0.0
| prev = 1.0.7
| next =
| nextparent = 1.1.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.0.8''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on August 12, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/257|title=Release 1.0.8 (1.21.110.24)|website=GitHub|date=August 12, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/38757295608077-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-110-24|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.110.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 12, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added toast notifications support.
** Added support for toast notifications by introducing a new {{cd|logChannel}} property and a {{cd|subMessage}} field in the {{cd|LogMessage}} class.
** Log messages with the toast channel now appear as popup notifications in the viewport when an error occurs.
** The {{cd|subMessage}} field allows for additional contextual information to be displayed in the toast.
* Added a new setting – 'Show Toast Notifications':
** A new checkbox setting, 'Show Toast Notifications', has been added to the Settings panel.
** When enabled, info and warning messages will also be displayed as toast notifications, in addition to errors.

== Changes ==
* The Copy to Clipboard button in the Detailed Structure Panel now switches to {{cd|PastePreview}} when clicked pressed.
* The Pencil in editor now has an ability to place "objects" in the scene. Objects are non-trivial ''Minecraft'' elements, like beds, doors, plants, etc.
* Updated Block Picker to give input focus to the search field when filter mode is Name.
* Updated summon tool to use {{key|Shift}} + Scroll to rotate the entity.
* Updated messages to show up as notifications.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug that caused selection brush indicator to remain after enabling Vibrant Visuals.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.0.8]]
[[uk:1.0.8 (Bedrock Editor)]]