{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.6024.0<br />'''Xbox''': 1.20.6024.70<br />'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.60.24
| image = Bedrock 1.20.60.24 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.60.24.png
| build = 20752826
| editorver = 0.5.1
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952006024（armeabi-v7a，33）<br />
962006024（x86，33）<br />
972006024（arm64-v8a，33）<br />
982006024（x86_64，33）<br />
| date = January 4, 2024
| server = 1.20.60.24
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br />[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.60.24.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.60.24.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.60
| prevparent = 1.20.51
| prev = Preview 1.20.60.23
| next = Preview 1.20.60.25
| nextparent = 1.20.62
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.60.24''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.60.24''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fifth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.60]], released on January 4, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/22915685759373/|title=Minecraft - Beta & ''Preview'' 1.20.60.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 4, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs. This is the first beta/''Preview'' released in 2024.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added the <code>trapdoors</code> block tag: contains all trapdoors. (<code>iron_trapdoor</code>, <code>trapdoor</code>, <code>spruce_trapdoor</code>, <code>birch_trapdoor</code>, <code>jungle_trapdoor</code>, <code>acacia_trapdoor</code>, <code>dark_oak_trapdoor</code>, <code>mangrove_trapdoor</code>, <code>cherry_trapdoor</code>, <code>bamboo_trapdoor</code>, <code>crimson_trapdoor</code>, <code>warped_trapdoor</code>, <code>copper_trapdoor</code>, <code>exposed_copper_trapdoor</code>, <code>weathered_copper_trapdoor</code>, <code>oxidized_copper_trapdoor</code>, <code>waxed_copper_trapdoor</code>, <code>waxed_exposed_copper_trapdoor</code>, <code>waxed_weathered_copper_trapdoor</code>, <code>waxed_oxidized_copper_trapdoor</code>)

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Hardened Stained Glass]] (EDU-only)'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>hard_stained_glass</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="16" | {{BlockSprite|hardened-stained-glass}} <code>hard_stained_glass</code>
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-white-stained-glass}} <code>hard_white_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-orange-stained-glass}} <code>hard_orange_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-magenta-stained-glass}} <code>hard_magenta_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-light-blue-stained-glass}} <code>hard_light_blue_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-yellow-stained-glass}} <code>hard_yellow_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-lime-stained-glass}} <code>hard_lime_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-pink-stained-glass}} <code>hard_pink_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-gray-stained-glass}} <code>hard_gray_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-light-gray-stained-glass}} <code>hard_light_gray_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-cyan-stained-glass}} <code>hard_cyan_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-purple-stained-glass}} <code>hard_purple_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-blue-stained-glass}} <code>hard_blue_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-brown-stained-glass}} <code>hard_brown_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-green-stained-glass}} <code>hard_green_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-red-stained-glass}} <code>hard_red_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-black-stained-glass}} <code>hard_black_stained_glass</code>
|}

'''[[Hardened Stained Glass Pane]] (EDU-only)'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>hard_stained_glass_pane</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="16" | {{BlockSprite|hardened-stained-glass-panes}} <code>hard_stained_glass_pane</code>
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-white-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_white_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-orange-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_orange_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-magenta-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_magenta_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-light-blue-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_light_blue_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-yellow-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_yellow_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-lime-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_lime_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-pink-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_pink_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-gray-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_gray_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-light-gray-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_light_gray_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-cyan-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_cyan_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-purple-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_purple_stained_glass</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-blue-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_blue_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-brown-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_brown_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-green-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_green_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-red-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_red_stained_glass_pane</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|hardened-black-stained-glass-pane}} <code>hard_black_stained_glass_pane</code>
|}

=== Items ===
'''[[Potato]], [[Carrot]], [[Melon]], [[Sweet Berries]], [[Nether Wart]], [[Sunflower]], [[Lilac]], [[Rose Bush]], [[Peony]], [[Glowstone Dust]], and [[Gravel]]'''
* No longer have increased chance of drops when mined with an [[enchanted book]] of [[Fortune]].<ref group="note">Actually, [[Sunflower]], [[Lilac]], [[Rose Bush]], [[Peony]] have been fixed in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.60.23|1.20.60.23]].</ref><ref group="note">Due to {{bug|MCPE-172622}}，drops of sweet berries doesn't change.</ref>

'''[[Turtle Scute]]'''
* Renamed "Scute" to "Turtle Scute".

===Structures===
'''[[Trail Ruins]]'''
* Trail ruins will now be placed in the same location and configuration as {{in|JE}}.

=== Technical ===
'''AI Goals'''
* {{cd|behavior.follow_parent}} now interrupts navigation on stop for content using engine version 1.20.60 or higher.
'''Biomes'''
* Biome tags in JSON files are now specified under a {{cd|minecraft:tags}} component, in a {{cd|tags}} array, rather than as loose JSON objects, for files with a {{cd|format_version}} of 1.20.60 or higher.
'''Components'''
* The {{cd|interact}} component now supports the additional {{cd|entity_act}} value for the {{cd|vibration}} field.
'''Entity Event Responses'''
*Added the {{cd|emit_vibration}} entity event response, which allows the entity to emit a vibration having the entity itself as its source.
**The {{cd|vibration}} field allows to specify the vibration to be emitted.
**The allowed values are {{cd|shear}}, {{cd|entity_act}}, and {{cd|entity_interact}}.
'''[[Molang]]'''
* Added content errors that state {{cd|query.remaining_durability}} and {{cd|query.max_durability}} are only to be used with Item contexts.
'''Performance'''
* Feature toggle {{cd|Enable New Geometry Tessellation Pipeline}} defaults to true.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Armadillo and Wolf Armor", "Update 1.21", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
===Additions===
====Technical====
'''[[Add-on]]s and Script Engine'''
* The block component {{cd|minecraft:random_ticking}} is now supported again.
'''[[API]]'''
*{{cd|system.runJob()}}
*{{cd|system.clearJob()}}
**Added {{cd|runJob}} and {{cd|clearJob}} for optimizing long running tasks using JavaScript generators. {{cd|system.runJob}} takes a generator function and returns a {{cd|jobId}}.
*{{cd|@minecraft/server.BlockPermutation}}
**Moved {{cd|getState}} and {{cd|withStates}} APIs from beta to stable.
'''Scripting'''
*Added {{cd|ScriptBiomeTypes}} and {{cd|ScriptBiomeType}} to allow Scripting API to enumerate the {{cd|BiomeRegistry}}.
*Added a {{cd|findClosestBiome}} function to {{cd|Dimension}} to find the closest biome of a specified type, to a given position in the world.
===Changes===
==== Mobs ====
'''[[Armadillo]]'''
* Armadillo now emits vibrations when rolling up and when unrolling.
* Baby armadillos no longer move towards their parents after rolling up.

'''[[Breeze]]'''
* The Breeze can now jump when standing in water.
* The Breeze now avoids trapdoors when pathfinding.

==== Blocks ====
'''[[Trial Spawner]]'''
* Improved trial spawner [[particle]]s.

==== Non-mob entities ====
'''[[Wind Burst]]'''
* Removed the darkening tint in wind burst particle to uphold parity.

==== Items ====
'''[[Wolf Armor]]'''
* Volume of sounds for equipping and removing wolf armor is now controlled by the Friendly Creatures slider.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.60.24 Preview
|;old
|105457|Villager's profession skin may not match its workstation and trades.
|173386|Going through Nether/End portal causes game to get stuck on "Building Terrain", and restarting the game teleports player to the same coordinates of the dimension that they left from.
|175206|Pistons pushing/pulling/breaking blocks may teleport player to 0 on one axis.
|176365|Cannot speed up after landing on blocks in Creative.
|176528|Villagers link to the same job block/bed even if it is already claimed, and game crashes if you break that job block/bed.
|;previous
|176926|Double pressing jump button makes the play jump while disabling flying.
|177283|Boat disappears when placed at the player's feet or next to another boat.
|177551|Armadillo's legs will sometimes flicker when rolled up.
|177560|Wolf armor duplicates when dropped.
|177562|Armadillo has no roll sound/unused sound.
|177593|Pillager outposts doesn't spawns pillagers.
|otherissuescount=13}}
'''Others'''
* Fixed a bug where the player would exit a vehicle at an incorrect height if the vehicle was over a fire block.
* Fix font glyph boundary artifacts (spotty pixels at the edge of each character) with italic text rendering at certain resolution.
* Pufferfish no longer inflate and deflate repeatedly when a player is at a specific distance from them.
* Mobs that have partial blocks (e.g. Trapdoors, Slabs, etc.) specified as part of their list of blocks to avoid in their Navigation Component should now avoid them properly.
* Realms Tab in new Play Screen should no longer be stuck in a loading state.
* Fixed crash that could occur in the Play menu whilst looking at Realms.
* Corrected translations about "posting" and "liking" on Realms Stories.
* Fixed issue where shadows for alpha tested geometry (doors, leaves, etc.) were no longer rendering in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Banner shields now render when equipped in both left and right hands in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Fixed an issue where light emitting items glowed in the player's hand in dark rooms during the day in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Improved upscaling stability on Android in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* On Android, pixelated artifacts are no longer visible on the right half of the screen when upscaling is turned on in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Fixed unstable and incorrect light clustering results in the Deferred Technical Preview.</onlyinclude>

== Notelist ==
{{Notelist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.60 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.60.24]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.60.24]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.60.24]]
[[lzh:基石版一點二〇點六〇點二四]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.60.24]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.60.24 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.60.24]]