{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.9.9.9
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = May 20, 2025
| client = 1.21.90.26
| prevparent = 0.9.0
| prev = 0.9.9
| next =
| nextparent = 1.0.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.9.9.9''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on May 20, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/241|title=Release 0.9.9.9 (1.21.90.26)|website=GitHub|date=May 20, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36757734170125-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-26|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.26|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 20, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
*Added "Export" button for Vibrant Visuals settings pane.
*Added a "Save & Exit" option to the Editor file menu.
*Added visibility persistence for scripted panes with unique ids.
*Added an action bar menu item for Deferred Lighting settings.
*Added missing toolips.

== Changes ==
*Updated fill to log a warning message (similar to selection tool) when attempting to fill when no lines or points exist in the world.
*Updated the block picker modal to use the currently selected block as the new block by default.
*Updated the size of the drop down action selector to be a bit wider.
*Updated structures list to more clearly indicate which item is selected.
*Updated menu bar items.
*Updated numerous strings for consistency and completeness.
*Updated {{cd|setBrushshapeOffsets}} to no longer double the distance being offset for brushes.
*Updated {{cd|RestrictSmartFillToSelection}} to {{cd|false}} by default.
*Updated shortcuts for "Marquee" mode in selection tool.
**{{keys|Left Mouse Button + SHIFT}} now creates a volume from the previous origin to the mouse click.
**{{keys|Left Mouse Button + CTRL}} now adds a new 1x1x1 volume at mouse click.
*Updated pan directions (still has an issue with smoothness).
*Updated paste preview to default to "Face" Target mode instead of "Block".
*Updated time of day and weather settings to persist when exiting and re-entering a project.
*Updated UI settings to be consolidated into a single settings panel and removed its menu item.
*Updated clicking "Restore All Defaults" in the keyboard settings with changed keybinds no longer crashes the game in some builds.
*Updated the line tool to support undo/redo.
*Removed disable achievement screens for Editor.

== Fixes ==
*Fixed a bug where banners did not copy specific colors or patterns, but copy the default color instead.
*Fixed a bug where the rotation of added blocks didn't align with selected block for extrude expand mode.
*Fixed flashing selected blocks when selecting different target positions using the smart fill tool.
*Fixed a bug that caused cancel button in block picker to not work.
*Fixed an exception when switching modes to/from crosshair.
*Fixed void and flat world images for create new project.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.9.9.9]]
[[ru:0.9.9.9 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.9.9.9 (Bedrock Editor)]]