{{Infobox version
| title = v1.19.60
| vernum = 1.19.60
| image = Bedrock 1.19.60.png
| edition = Bedrock
| server = [[Bedrock Dedicated Server 1.19.60.04|1.19.60.04]]<br>[[Bedrock Dedicated Server 1.19.61.01|1.19.61.01]]
| build = 13546152
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
951906003 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961906003 (x86, 31)<br>
971906003 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981906003 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| internal = '''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire''': 1.19.60.03<br>'''Windows''': 1.19.6003.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.6003.70<br>'''PlayStation 4''': 2.56<br>'''Nintendo Switch''': v73
| type = 
| date = '''All platforms''': February 7, 2023<br>'''Windows''': February 8, 2023
| prevparent = 1.19.0
| prev = 1.19.51
| next = 1.19.62
| nextparent = 1.20.0
| serverdl = '''Server (1.19.60.04)''':<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.19.60.04.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.19.60.04.zip Linux]<br>
'''Server (1.19.61.01)''':<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.19.61.01.zip Windows] 
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.19.61.01.zip Linux]
}}

'''1.19.60''' is a minor update to {{BE}} released on February 7, 2023, which brought more parity with ''[[Java Edition]]'', adds new spawn eggs, and fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/12708273043341|title=Minecraft - 1.19.60 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 7, 2023}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/documents/update1.19.60?view=minecraft-bedrock-stable|title=Minecraft Bedrock 1.19.60 Update Notes for Creators|website=Microsoft Learn|date=November 7, 2023}}</ref> This is the first version released in 2023.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Ender Dragon Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Iron Golem Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Snow Golem Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Wither Spawn Egg Revision 1
}}

=== Items ===
'''[[Spawn Eggs]]'''
* Added new spawn egg items for ender dragon, iron golem, snow golem, and wither mobs in Creative mode.
** Ender dragon and wither spawn eggs will only be available through commands to prevent accidental destruction of player builds.

=== General ===
'''[[Particles|Particle Effects]]'''
* Added support for mixed color blending on particle effects.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Button]]s'''
* Updated sounds are now played by default without experimental toggle on.

'''[[Campfire]]'''
* Campfires no longer set players and mobs on fire.

'''[[Dispenser]]'''
* Dispensers can now equip saddles and horse armors to tamed horses.
* Dispensers can now equip saddles and chests to tamed mules and donkeys.
* Dispensers can now equip carpets and chests to tamed llamas.
* Dispensers can now equip saddles to pigs and striders.
* Shears in a dispenser will now only shear one sheep at a time.
* Shears in a dispenser will now shear snow golems and mooshrooms.

'''[[Door]]s, [[fence gate]]s, and [[trapdoor]]s'''
* Updated sounds are now played by default without experimental toggle on.

'''[[Pressure Plate]]s'''
* Updated sounds are now played by default without experimental toggle on.

=== Items ===
'''[[Spawn Eggs]]'''
* Polar bear spawn egg colors have changed to distinguish it from the ghast spawn egg.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Donkey]], [[Mule]], [[Skeleton Horse]], and [[Zombie Horse]]'''
* Changed their textures.
'''[[Enderman]], [[Skeleton]], and [[Wither Skeleton]]'''
* Now only spawn at light level 7 and below in [[the Nether]], instead of 11 and below.
'''[[Vex]]'''
* The texture of the vex has slightly changed.

==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Sound]]'''
* Updated unique wood type sounds are now played by default without experimental toggle on.

==== General ====
'''[[Particles]]'''
* Beacon and conduit particles are now translucent, instead of opaque.

== Fixes ==
'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed a potential crash when gliding through an End Gateway.
* The game no longer crashes when killing an entity with invalid conditions, functions, or pools entries in its loot table. ({{bug|MCPE-164623}})
* Fixed multiple crashes that could occur when players died while affected with Withering.
* Fixed a crash on Xbox when the Edit World Button on the Select World Screen had quick successive selections.
* Fixed a bug that caused players to desync from multiplayer games if they saved and quit after dying and rejoining a game. ({{bug|MCPE-162630}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when teleporting players to other dimensions using commands. ({{bug|MCPE-164940}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using the “instant_despawn” component.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading actors.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed a bug causing players’ hitboxes and nameplates to be unaligned when rejoining a world after dying and returning to menu without respawning. ({{bug|MCPE-162630}})
* Raids now trigger properly when the player with bad omen enters a village while riding/gliding. ({{bug|MCPE-152774}})
* Fixed an issue where players could fall out of moving blocks when pushed upward. ({{bug|MCPE-163725}})
* Fixed an issue where night was being incorrectly skipped if the last player in a game was in the Nether or End.
* A player entering the Nether or End will now trigger a night skip if all players left in Overworld are sleeping.
* Fixed a bug where dropping an item and sleeping at the same time would cause the server to hang. ({{bug|MCPE-162989}})
* Orbs spawned within the same block will merge and combine XP values until orb limit is reached.

'''Mobs'''
* Vex hitboxes are now vertically centered with their models.
* Vex and Allay now sit properly in Boats and Minecarts. ({{bug|MCPE-164441}})
* Fixed Vex texture disparity between Bedrock and Java. ({{bug|MCPE-164227}})
* Slimes and Magma Cubes no longer spawn in spaces that are 2 blocks tall or less. ({{bug|MCPE-46540}})
* Glow Squid now emit particles when spawned outside of water.
* Using a Saddle on a tamed Horse, Donkey, or Mule now results in it being equipped. ({{bug|MCPE-83815}})
* Using Horse Armor on an unarmored, tamed Horse now results in it being equipped. ({{bug|MCPE-163336}})
* Using a Carpet on a tamed Llama now results in it being equipped. ({{bug|MCPE-163336}})
* Dispensers can now equip Saddles and Horse Armors to tamed Horses.
* Dispensers can now equip Saddles and Chests to tamed Mules and Donkeys.
* Dispensers can now equip Carpets and Chests to tamed Llamas.
* Dispensers can now equip Saddles to Pigs and Striders.
* Shears in a Dispenser now only shear one Sheep at a time.
* Shears in a Dispenser can now shear Snow Golems and Mooshrooms.
* The Wandering Trader no longer has a chance to offer duplicate Seed trades. ({{bug|MCPE-161780}})
* Endermen, Skeletons, and Wither Skeletons now only spawn at light level 7 and below (instead of 11 and below) in the Nether. ({{bug|MCPE-163701}})
* Updated the Skeleton/Zombie Horse's and Donkey/Mule's saddle and chest textures.
* Villagers will now ensure that rain can pass through the block above them before launching Fireworks when celebrating after a raid victory. ({{bug|MCPE-152386}})
* Axolotls no longer tick their dry out timer when unloaded. ({{bug|MCPE-131041}})
* Husks can now fit in a two blocks high space and baby Husks in a one-high space. ({{bug|MCPE-105369}})
* All mobs are now able to path through Wither Roses. ({{bug|MCPE-159212}})
* Entities no longer disappear when sent through End Gateways. ({{bug|MCPE-164985}})
* Ravagers are now able to attack when standing on various partial blocks like Mud. ({{bug|MCPE-162483}})
* Vex now use a separate charging animation when empty-handed. ({{bug|MCPE-164490}})
* Vex now render offhand items.
* Fixed the Vex being incorrectly lit in dark surroundings.
* Players can no longer see through terrain by riding a Horse, Mule, or Donkey at the edge of a 2-block-tall space.
* Villagers will now take damage from lightning bolts on Peaceful difficulty, like other mobs.
* Tropical Fish no longer use surface density limit when spawning underground. ({{bug|MCPE-157485}})
* Evokers now play a ‘sit’ animation when riding a mount or vehicle. ({{bug|MCPE-43778}})

'''Blocks'''
* Crimson and Warped block sets now have a unique set of sounds.
* Campfires do not set players and mobs on fire anymore, but still inflict damage. ({{bug|MCPE-98931}})
* Campfires do not destroy Minecarts and Boats anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-109489}})
* Bamboo plant placement now behaves the same way as Java Edition; it will no longer grow by clicking on the side of a Bamboo plant with a Bamboo item in-hand. ({{bug|MCPE-99587}})
* Bamboo sapling no longer replaces double plants when placed. ({{bug|MCPE-99806}})
* Pumpkins and Melons can now grow on Mycelium and Moss blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-125932}})
* The Sculk Shrieker block's shriek sound can now be heard at the longer distance of 32 blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-163989}})
* Respawn Anchor no longer retains its charges if mined with Silk Touch or picked. ({{bug|MCPE-145682}})
* Beacon effect particles are now transparent. ({{bug|MCPE-17679}})
* Conduit effect particles are now transparent. ({{bug|MCPE-93728}})
* Redstone Dust now emits a sound when placed on the ground. ({{bug|MCPE-65423}})
* Wooden Doors, Iron Doors, Wooden Trapdoors, Iron Trapdoors and Fence Gates now use the same opening and closing sounds as Java Edition.
* Updated Pressure Plates to have different sound pitches based on their behavior to match Java Edition.
* Added a unique click sound for Wooden Buttons to match Java Edition.
* Changed Frogspawn map color to match Java Edition. ({{bug|MCPE-159715}})
* Change Bed block map colors to match Java Edition. ({{bug|MCPE-40709}})
* Changed various blocks’ Map colors to appear correctly match Java Edition. ({{bug|MCPE-19228}})
* Entities no longer get pushed out by Doors activated by Redstone signals. ({{bug|MCPE-158971}})
* Using the Pick Block functionality on Fern and Grass now selects the correct item in the inventory instead of the first one between them.
* Using the Pick Block functionality on Acacia Leaves and Dark Oak Leaves now selects the correct item in the inventory instead of the first one between them.
* Hoppers no longer fail to collect items when trying to pull in multiple item types. ({{bug|MCPE-38963}})
* Prevent Pistons from re-creating moving blocks that were destroyed mid-move. ({{bug|MCPE-164804}})
* Blocks that require supporting blocks now appear properly on a Map when placed on partial blocks or above air. ({{bug|MCPE-159713}})
* Scaffolding now displays particles and produces vibrations when the block under it is destroyed. ({{bug|MCPE-163738}})
* Stone Walls are now placed correctly in a line when continuously placing them.
* Levers now produce the same sound effect as Stone Buttons. ({{bug|MCPE-163335}})

'''Items'''
* Fixed item degradation when rapidly attacking mobs. ({{bug|MCPE-157150}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented some Tripwire Hooks from being valid trades when trading with a Fletcher Villager. ({{bug|MCPE-108195}})
* Ender Pearls will no longer teleport a sleeping player. ({{bug|MCPE-161189}})

'''Touch Controls'''
* Fixed a bug that prevented items from moving indirectly between Creative Mode inventory and players' extended inventory in Pocket UI. ({{bug|MCPE-164479}})
* Fixed a problem where the touch d-pad's forward button was not functional when holding the strafe left/right button. ({{bug|MCPE-155199}})
* The inventory tab will now reset its hover state if the player uses a second input method and hover on another tab.
* Fixed a bug where players couldn’t interact with toast notifications in Joystick and Crosshair touch controls.
* The pressing direction of the build button in touch controls will now be visually clicked down instead of up when being pressed. ({{bug|MCPE-162026}})
* Fixed an issue where players could not remove items by clicking on the inventory items in Classic profile. ({{bug|MCPE-162124}})
* The touch focus circle has been reactivated with the new touch controls (not in Crosshair mode).
* Resolved an issue that pressing the inventory button could interact with the world instead of opening the inventory on some devices. ({{bug|MCPE-154499}})
* Fixed an issue that players couldn’t scroll the inventory screen when one row was appearing off-screen. ({{bug|MCPE-159870}})
* Added several levels of intervals for repeat crafting when holding on the crafted items.
* Removed the camera movement delay when the player swiped from the attack and build buttons in crosshair mode.
* Fixed inventory screen touch interactions not working properly on Nintendo Switch.
* The correct tip for dismounting Boats and Minecarts now appears when not using classic touch controls.
* Toast notifications can now be swiped away on touch devices in-game.
* Touch Control settings section is no longer visible on Xbox.

'''Graphical'''
* Highlight selection no longer highlights the entire card for transparent objects like saplings.
* V-sync settings are now properly configured in options (non-ARM devices). ({{bug|MCPE-110006}})

'''Accessibility'''
* The new Create New World screen is now available for text to speech users.
* Fixed text to speech enumeration for world on the Play screen, select language in settings screen, select controls in settings screen, and friends in invite friends screen when there are a large number of items in the list.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug where the mouse cursor was visible and is no longer usable to control the player camera on the HUD screen after exiting the menu screen with a touch while moving the mouse around.
* Fixed text being slightly off-centered to the left for Furnace, Blast Furnace, and Smoker screens. ({{bug|MCPE-151597}})
* Feedback button on the main menu will now prompt the player with a modal before redirecting to their web browser.
* Fixed an issue where text fields would not regain focus after being deselected with a gamepad. ({{bug|MCPE-153842}})
* Text fields are no longer deselected with second click on them once they are selected.
* Fixed an issue where user interface elements on the Achievements screen and the new Create New World screen didn't properly trigger sound effects. ({{bug|MCPE-163722}})
* Added a missing error screen that displays when attempting to create a world with too little available disk space.
* Fixed the quality of the Mojang Studios logo loading screen on Xbox. ({{bug|MCPE-163036}})
* Removed extra space around the "open chat" message that appears when entering a world. ({{bug|MCPE-162700}})
* Fixed an issue that caused the Wandering Trader's trade window to show a profession. ({{bug|MCPE-162576}})
* Resource packs will now be applied to the world after navigating to another screen before creation.
* Fixed an issue where some resource packs prompted an error after being downloaded.

'''Android'''
* The screen will no longer automatically turn off while a world is loaded when playing on Android devices.
* Updated splash screen to be consistent between Android 12+ devices and older devices. ({{bug|MCPE-151413}})
* Fixed controller input sometimes getting stuck when a controller was disconnected on Android devices.
* The UI no longer flickers on Android when the on-screen keyboard appears. ({{bug|MCPE-142356}})

'''Realms'''
* New Realm button on the two player Realm info screen now activates correctly.
* Added a highlight to Realms terms and agreements checkbox when the UI is hovered.
* Redirect players back to the world selection screen if they choose to leave on the Download Resource Packs prompt.
* Fixed a bug where the option "Require players to accept resource packs to join" did not reflect the actual state. ({{bug|REALMS-10799}})
* Fixed erroneously showing previously applied packs on Realms settings screen after a Realm reset.
* Updated error message for failing to join an owned Realms server that is out of date. New messaging now describes the issue and provides steps to resolve issue.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.19.60]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.19.60]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.19.60]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.19.60]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.60]]