{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.70.21 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.70.21.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
951907021 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961907021 (x86, 31)<br>
971907021 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981907021 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| date = '''Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - February 1, 2023<br>'''Android''' - February 7, 2023
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.7021.0<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.7021.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.70.21
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.70.21.zip Windows]
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.70.21.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.70
| prevparent = 1.19.63
| prev = Preview 1.19.70.20
| next = Preview 1.19.70.22
| nextparent = 1.19.71
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.19.70.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.70.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.70]], released on February 1-7, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/12739185905933|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.70.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 1, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|clone}}, {{cmd|fill}} and {{cmd|setblock}}'''
* Removed <code>tileData: int</code> argument.
'''{{cmd|execute}}'''
* Removed <code>data: int</code> argument.
'''{{cmd|testforblock}}'''
* Removed <code>dataValue: int</code> argument.
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Zombified Piglin]]'''
* Now spawn at light levels of 11 and below.
=== Technical ===
'''General'''
* Crafting Table component no longer appends "tile." when defaulting to use block name for crafting table label.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Next Major Update" and "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Head]]s'''
* Piglin and Dragon Head blocks no longer animate in the hotbar or inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-164535}}, {{bug|MCPE-32654}})
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Added function <code>playAnimation(animationName: string, options?: PlayAnimationOptions)</code> - Plays the specified animation for an entity.
* ItemStack
** ''ItemStack'' can now be constructed using a string identifier.
** Removed constructor parameter <code>data</code>.
** Removed property <code>data</code>.
** Removed function ''clearLore'' To clear lore, call ''setLore'' with an empty array or undefined.
** Setting <code>nameTag</code> to an empty string will now clear the name tag.
** Setting <code>nameTag</code> to a string longer than 255 characters will now result in an exception.
** Setting <code>amount</code> greater than the maximum stack size will now clamp the value to the maximum stack size.
** Setting <code>amount</code> to a value less than 1 will now result in an exception.
* ContainerSlot
** Removed function ''clearItem-'' To clear the item, call ''setItem'' with undefined.
** Removed function ''clearLore-'' To clear lore, call setLore with an empty array or undefined.
'''GameTest Framework'''
* Test
** Added optional <code>searchDistanceparameter</code> to <code>assertEntityPresent(entityTypeIdentifier: string, blockLocation: BlockLocation, searchDistance?: number, isPresent?: boolean)</code>.
** Added <code>assertEntityInstancePresentInArea(entity: Entity, isPresent?: boolean)</code> to check if an entity instance is present in the test area.
** Made the <code>searchDistance</code> parameter optional in <code>assertItemEntityPresent</code>.
'''JSON'''
* In JSON formats 1.19.70 and later, blocks fail to load if the "condition" field in Block Permutations is not a valid Molang string.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Players are now able to place top Slabs in blocks that are only partially blocked by an entity. ({{bug|MCPE-155016}})
* Players can no longer see through partial blocks when sneaking or riding in third person. ({{bug|MCPE-156273}})
* Error messages about building outside the world height limits no longer appear when simply interacting with blocks at the world height limits from certain angles. ({{bug|MCPE-152935}})
* Players are now able to interact with functional blocks while sneaking in a gap without the sneak button held.
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Minecarts can now eject mobs into liquid blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-120078}})
'''Touch Controls'''
* Allowed left and right D-pad buttons to keep input when the forward button is pressed.
* Added the leave Boat button when the player falls from a height within in the boat.
* Fixed an issue that prevented players from removing equipped armor by tapping on an item or block in the Creative inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-165790}})
'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed an issue where simultaneously pressing the "Mine" and "Place" button on any input device while targeting a Structure Block could cause the game to crash. ({{bug|MCPE-155689}})
'''Marketplace'''
* Navigating right with controller left stick on sidebar now collapses it.
'''Commands'''
* Volume arguments no longer floor the selector's position. ({{bug|MCPE-162237}})
* Selecting targets by volume will now select all entities whose hitbox collides with the volume box. This is versioned for 1.19.70 and later. ({{bug|MCPE-162237}})
* Previous behavior works as expected on versions less than 1.19.70.
* Volume arguments for selectors (dx, dy, dz) now support float values. ({{bug|MCPE-163863}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.70 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.70.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.70.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.70.21]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.70.21]]