{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.210.50.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21050.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21050.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.50<br>
|build=5075987
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' December 2, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=
|next=beta 1.16.210.51
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.50''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on December 2, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360053136231|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.50 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 2, 2020}}</ref> which added new ambient sounds to [[the Nether]], and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Ambience]]'''
* Added new ambient sounds to [[the Nether]].<ref>{{bug|MCPE-74756}}</ref>
** Different sounds play in each Nether biome.

== Fixes ==
'''General'''
* Players are once again able to join servers when the server has view-distance set to 4 or less ({{bug|BDS-8855}}).
* Animations for custom mobs based on vanilla actor types for their "runtime_identifier" (such as Pandas and Polar Bears) will now work properly ({{bug|MCPE-95898}}).
* Brought back capability to rejoin a server after it has been suspended and resumed.

'''Accessibility'''
* Fixed the screen reader not reading the title on the Permissions screen.

'''Achievement Screen'''
* Removed the input legend of the Achievement page Summary panel when narration is enabled.
* Fixed an issue where the scrollbar could be hidden behind the input legend.
* Fixed achievement details page getting its content hidden behind the Input legend.
* Updated size of achievement reward frame.
* Updated frame art for locked achievements.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.50]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.50]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.50]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.50]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.50 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock beta 1.16.210.50]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.50]]