{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.13.08}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.2.13.8.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|parent=1.2.13
|date=March 16, 2018
|prevparent=1.2.11
|prev=beta 1.2.13.6
|next=beta 1.2.13.10
|nextparent=1.2.14
}}<onlyinclude> 

'''Beta 1.2.13.8''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.2.13]], released on March 16, 2018, which adds some of the [[Update Aquatic]] features through [[Experimental gameplay]] and fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004165251-Minecraft-Beta-1-2-13-10-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.2.13.10 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 16, 2018}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Slab]]s and [[stairs]]'''
* Added slabs and stairs for [[prismarine]], prismarine bricks, and dark prismarine.
** Only available through [[Experimental gameplay]].

'''[[Stripped log]]s'''
* A barkless variant of [[log]]s.
* Created by using an [[axe]] on a log.
* Only available through Experimental gameplay.

'''[[Stripped wood]]'''
* A barkless variant of [[wood]].
* Can only be placed with {{cmd|setblock ~ ~ ~ stripped_<type>_log 3}}.
* Only available through Experimental gameplay.

=== Items ===
'''[[Trident]]'''
* Obtained by killing drowned.
* Can be thrown or used as a melee weapon.
* Only available through [[Experimental gameplay]].
'''[[Spawn Egg]]'''
* [[Drowned]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Drowned]]'''
* Spawn in oceans and rivers.
* Only available through [[Experimental gameplay]].

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchantments]]'''
* [[Channeling]]
** Only has one level.
** Used on tridents to summon a lightning bolt on impact with a [[mob]] during [[thunderstorm]]s.
** Only available through [[Experimental gameplay]].

* [[Impaling]]
** Goes up to level V.
** Used on tridents to deal more damage to [[player]]s and mobs in water or rain.
** Only available through Experimental gameplay.

* [[Loyalty]]
** Goes up to level III.
** Used on tridents to make it return to the player when thrown.
** Only available through Experimental gameplay.

* [[Riptide]]
** Goes up to level III.
** Used on tridents to launch the player when thrown while in water or rain.
** Only available through Experimental gameplay.

'''[[Swimming]]'''
* Added a new swimming animation while sprinting in water.
** Only available through Experimental gameplay.

== Fixes ==
* Iron golems no longer spawn when mob spawning is disabled.
* Rain, smoke particles, and shadows are no longer visible through lava.
* Disabling "Visible to LAN Players" for one world no longer disables it for all worlds.
* Buttons cloned in a "pressed" state no longer remain pressed forever.
* A warning now appears instructing not to close the game when exporting a world.
* The power output of redstone comparators is no longer lost after a world is converted from Xbox One Edition.
* Pick Block no longer replaces the item currently selected in the hotbar if other slots are empty.
* Increased stability and fixed several crashes.
* Mineshafts no longer generate above ground.
* Fixed improper mushroom block obtained from giant red mushrooms when using Pick Block.
* Tools now work properly and no longer shake in-hand.
* Sticky pistons no longer turn into regular pistons after being renamed.
* Tripwire hooks once again appear in jungle temples.
* Players can once again stand on top of ladders.
* Mob heads can no longer be duplicated by placing them in water.
* Strongholds once again generate with mossy stone brick and cracked stone brick.
* The maximum render distance on Xbox One X is once again 22 chunks.
* More than one line of text can once again be placed on signs.
* The B button no longer has to be pressed twice on the controller to deselect a skin in the Skin Picker.
* Heads and skulls that are placed on a wall no longer have incorrect hitbox positions.
* Invisible vines no longer appear on jungle trees.
* Torches can once again be placed in the same block occupied by a player.
* The player now descends more slowly in water.
* Fixed world updates occasionally not rendering.
* The player's hotbar is no longer filled with [[reserved6]] in worlds last played during older versions of Pocket Edition.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.13.8]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.13.8]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.2.13.8]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.13.8]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.4 build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.2.13.8]]
[[ru:Beta 1.2.13.8 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.2.13.8]]