{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.5.0.7.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' May 24, 2018
|parent=1.5.0
|prevparent=1.4.4
|prev=beta 1.5.0.4
|next=beta 1.5.0.10
|nextparent=1.5.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.5.0.7''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.5.0]], released on May 24, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004188092-Minecraft-Beta-1-5-0-7-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.5.0.7 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=May 24, 2018}}</ref> which fixes many bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Fancy Bubbles can now be toggled in the video settings to affect the look of [[bubble column]]s.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Trident]]s'''
* No longer break [[block]]s in [[Creative]] mode.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when suspending the game during world generation.
* Particles now appear when player jump into water.
* Particles now appear when tropical fish flop into the water.
* Fixed Bows not appearing in the right hand when being charged.
* Fixed the texture of the wither's armor not appearing properly with several texture packs.
* Fixed the rotation of oak trapdoor textures.
* Fixed seam lines appearing between cactus blocks on the City Texture Pack.
* Fixed missing water textures while underwater and a block is placed above the water.
* Crops will no longer grow by repeatedly placing a full size, non-transparent block on top of them.
* Blocks can once again be repeatedly placed when flying sideways in Creative mode.
* Mobs will no longer spawn on top of redstone components.
* Fixed the delay in ice textures appearing when using the Frost Walker enchantment.
* Enchanted tridents no longer flash red when entering fire.
* Armor stands can now be destroyed by thrown tridents.
* Salmon will no longer get stuck on the edges of Old worlds.
* Throwable items will no longer hit the player when there is a parrot riding on their shoulder
* Dolphins can no longer fully clip through magma blocks.
* Increased the collision boxes of fish.
* Fixed Slowness levels over 4 not appearing on the mob effects screen.
* Water now appears properly around ladders.
* Slowness effect no longer changes field of view based on the effect's strength
* Sea turtle eggs no longer flicker when placed in an item frame.
* Zombie villagers now attack sea turtle eggs.
* Fixed particles not appearing when placing sea turtle eggs.
* Tridents no longer fall below ground after hitting mobs and players.
* Drowned now have correct arm rotation when swimming.
* Spawn eggs can now be obtained by using Pick Block on drowned in Creative mode.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.7]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.7]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.5.0.7]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.7]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.5 build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.5.0.7]]
[[ru:Beta 1.5.0.7 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.5.0.7]]