{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.2023.0<br>'''ChromeOS, Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.20.23
| image = Bedrock 1.21.20.23 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.20.23.png
| build = 26212918
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952102023 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962102023 (x86, 34)<br />
972102023 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982102023 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| editorver = 0.6.9
| date = July 17, 2024
| server = 1.21.20.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.20.23.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.20.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.20
| prevparent = 1.21.3
| prev = Preview 1.21.20.22
| next = Preview 1.21.20.24
| nextparent = 1.21.21
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.20.23''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.20.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the eighth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20]], released on July 17, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/28486285876237|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.20.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=July 17, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Technical ===
'''Entity Components'''
*Improved {{cd|behavior.follow_owner}} teleportation logic: 
**Entities now seamlessly resume navigation after teleporting to their owner.
**Added the {{cd|post_teleport_distance}} field, allowing to specify how far from its owner an entity will be placed after teleporting.
***If no value is specified, {{cd|stop_distance}} increased by one will be used.
*These changes only affect entities with format version of 1.21.20 or above.

'''General'''
*Removed the "Holiday Creator Features" experiment. Content that uses the experimental features may no longer function correctly.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Creator Cameras: Focus Target Camera" experimental toggle.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''Focus Target Camera'''
*Focus target experiment is now available, more functionality to come in future releases.
*A new camera command has been added to target entities and keep them in center screen.
**Includes option to add an offset from the center of the entity.
**Includes option to remove the target.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.20.23 Preview
|;old
|158895|Apple Pencil no longer recognized by Minecraft app.
|180578|Particles are always generated on the west side of the entity when the breeze is idle
|182145|Leads attached to boats connect to its center rather than to the front.
|182645|Text copied from sign/book and quill when editing.
|;previous
|183449|Flattened light blocks do not have "stone" sound assigned.
|otherissuescount=4}}
'''Other'''
*The Swim game tip can now only appears when not breathing in water.
*Fixed an instance where input could stop working as expected when using Touch Controls and Custom Cameras.
*The chat quick access history no longer stores duplicate chat entries.
*Fixed flickering item icon when quick moving a stack to non-empty stacks.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.20 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.20.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.20.23]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.20.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.20.23]]