{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.11.0.8.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.11.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>March 27, 2019
|prevparent=1.10.1
|prev=beta 1.11.0.7
|next=beta 1.11.0.9
|nextparent=1.11.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.11.0.8''' is the sixth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0]], released on March 27, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360025832331|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.11.0.8 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 27, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when entities like XP orbs touch bell blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-43224}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using a crafting table in Creative mode. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning a vile spider from the MINECON add-on pack. 
* Sneezing pandas no longer crash the game. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when suspending the game on Gear VR.
* Fixed a bug that could cause the game to freeze when selecting Save & Quit.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Bedrock Dedicated Server. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when viewing owned skin packs. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when the text to speech feature tried to read a special character.

'''Performance'''
* Improved the performance when opening the player inventory with the crafting recipes open. ({{bug|MCPE-41772}}, {{bug|MCPE-41166}}, {{bug|MCPE-27167}})
* General performance improvements. 
* Improved performance by adjusting the 'RandomStroll' mob behavior.

'''General'''
* Text to Speech now only operates when the focus is on Minecraft. 
* Text to speech no longer stops working if too many punctuation marks are used. 
* Choosing the "Allow Games to Speak to Me" option on Xbox now works correctly with Minecraft.
* Updated text to speech popup text. 
* Text to Speech now correctly reads the generating world dialog boxes. 
* Text to speech now only auto-enables when the client is set to English. 
* Text to speech for touch now uses single tap for focus and double tap for press. 
* Fixed a bug where the text to speech narrator would read world names twice. 
* Made further improvements to world saving, to prevent worlds becoming disappearing from the world list.
* Worlds should no longer get stuck on the 'generating world' screen when the player is in the end dimension. ({{bug|MCPE-41513}})
* Free preview skins now roam across devices when signed in to Xbox Live.

'''Gameplay'''
* If a player exits and re-enters a world during a raid, the boss bar no longer disappears, and the 'Hero of the Village' effect can still be obtained.
* Raids no longer fail to spawn waves while the player is flying.
* Reverted the fix for players falling through blocks around blocks 65k from spawn. ({{bug|MCPE-39299}})

'''Mobs'''
* Skeleton horses spawned in from earlier versions can be ridden once again. ({{bug|MCPE-40857}})
* Removed the distance restriction for phantom spawning, meaning they should spawn more readily now. ({{bug|MCPE-43736}})
* Villagers can now properly access the entire village outskirts, without showing frustrated particles because it's too far. 
* Spawned villagers who are leveled up now start with the preferred profession and won't change when introduced to a new village.

'''Blocks'''
* End portal blocks can no longer drop as items. ({{bug|MCPE-42991}})

'''Items'''
* Crafted items once again stack correctly with partial stacks already in the player's inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-42719}}) 

'''Graphical'''
* Clouds are now three-dimensional again. ({{bug|MCPE-43505}})
* On screen animation no longer plays for all mob effects. ({{bug|MCPE-43502}}) 

'''User interface'''
* Ratings button for server consumables now shows "Rate this pack!" instead of the purchase button.

'''Add-ons / script engine'''
* Added component references for new villagers.
* Original villager and zombie variant spawn eggs can still be obtained and used in Marketplace content that utilized them.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.8]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.8]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.11.0.8]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.11.0.8]]
[[ru:Beta 1.11.0.8 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.0.8]]