{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.09}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.12.0.9.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.12.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>June 3, 2019
|prevparent=1.11.4
|prev=beta 1.12.0.6
|next=beta 1.12.0.10
|nextparent=1.12.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.12.0.9''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]], released on June 3, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360029078811-Minecraft-Beta-1-12-0-9-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.12.0.9 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=June 3, 2019}}</ref> which adds [[rarity]] tooltips and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Removing a timer component and adding a new one should no longer have the new timer inherit the old timer's time value.
* Included a fix to allow for JSON content that refers to blocks with "tile." at the front of it to be looked up successfully.

'''[[Rarity]]'''
* [[Golden apple]]s and enchanted golden apples now have rarity tooltips.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Nintendo Switch when the game was saving or loading. ({{bug|MCPE-45862}})
* Fixed a Marketplace issue that could result in the game getting stuck or crashing when loading in content.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when signing in to Xbox Live.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when breaking a bell. ({{bug|MCPE-46636}})
* Fixed an issue that could cause the game to freeze or stop responding. ({{bug|MCPE-46654}})
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when changing skins.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading in a roaming skin.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Switch.

'''Performance'''
* Made further performance improvements when opening inventory screens. ({{bug|MCPE-27167}})
* Made some further performance improvements around villages and job sites.
* Several other performance improvements, included some related to mob AI pathfinding.

'''General'''
* The Marketplace search screen now displays the proper pack icons.
* Fixed Marketplace sale items not showing the discount percentage.
* Marketplace sale items no longer change size when hovered over.
* The "New" tag is now properly removed from a Marketplace collection once it has been viewed.
* Replaced some missing Marketplace screenshots.
* Made improvements to the patch notes to make sure the correct ones show up after an update.
* Fixed an issue with skins not loading in correctly after restarting the game.
* Several fixes and improvements related to game invites:
** Fixed a bug that would prevent a player from creating or loading a world, or cause a crash, after attempting and failing to join another world via an invite.
** Fixed an issue that prevented the player from joining a world or server after receiving an invite.
** Players should no longer see the "Unable to connect to World" message when trying to enter own Realm or any area from Friends tab after failed attempt to join a game.
* Fixed a loading screen issue that could prevent split-screen players on console from joining the world correctly.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue that was preventing players from feeding hay bales to animals in order to breed them.
* Players now respawn at the correct spawn point when they die.
* Players can now respawn successfully without having to exit and re-join the world first.

'''Mobs'''
* Iron golems now sway when walking.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed the sitting model for cats that were previously tamed ocelots. ({{bug|MCPE-41929}})
* Enchanted armor and bows now show their shimmering effect again. ({{bug|MCPE-45750}}) 

'''User interface'''
* Fixed a controller bug when navigating through the Marketplace
* The crafting grid no longer clears when the gamepad cursor moves to any non-recipe book slot 

'''Add-ons and scripting engine'''
* Fixed an issue that was preventing custom blocks from registering successfully.
* Fixed an issue with custom items and blocks not requiring the namespace for slash commands.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.9]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.9]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.12.0.9]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.12.0.9]]
[[ru:Beta 1.12.0.9 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.12.0.9]]