{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.02}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.0.2.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.2.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.2.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.0.2<br>
|parent=1.14.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 15, 2019
|prevparent=1.13.3
|prev=beta 1.14.0.1
|next=beta 1.14.0.3
|nextparent=1.14.0.12
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.0.2''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]], released on October 15, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360035197291|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.0.2 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=October 15, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Honey block]]s'''
* Changed the texture to match {{el|je}}.
* No longer stick to [[slime block]]s when pushed by [[piston]]s.

'''[[Honeycomb block]]s'''
* Are now crafted with 4 [[honeycomb]]s instead of 9.

'''[[Slime block]]s'''
* Changed the texture to match {{el|je}}.

=== General ===
'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* The title screen background has been changed again to look exactly like how it does on {{el|je}}.

'''[[Patrol]]s'''
* Can no longer spawn in [[the Nether]] and [[End]]. ({{bug|MCPE-51481}})

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when breaking a crafting table.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes be triggered by certain honey block states.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes happen after pressing any button during chat UI closing animation.

'''Performance'''
* UI textures now load in more quickly when joining and leaving a world.

'''General'''
* Bee nests now spawn in more types of tree, as they do in the ''Java Edition''.
* Fixed a bug that could cause some models to appear incorrectly in the character creator.
* Various tweaks and fixes to the character creator. 
* Fixed an issue that would sometimes cause the loading screen background to not show correctly when joining a split-screen multiplayer game. 
* Fixed a navigation issue that could cause an incorrect focus change when choosing an option from the pause menu.
* Fixed an issue that was causing worn items to transfer between character creator models unexpectedly.

'''Gameplay'''
* Breaking a beehive while in creative mode will no longer drop the block as an item.
* The honeycomb block now uses the stone block sound instead of the slime block sound. ({{bug|MCPE-53577}})
* Green particles are now shown when crops get pollinated by bees.
* Mob behavior when jumping on honey blocks is now more consistent for all mobs.
* Fixed an issue that could sometimes cause touch screen controls to become inverted. ({{bug|MCPE-50256}})
* Pick block now works correctly on bees. ({{bug|MCPE-53445}})
* Fixed the held item bobbing animation when moving in first person view. ({{bug|MCPE-51212}})

'''Mobs'''
* Reduced the time that bees take to search for a new hive when a hive is full.
* Bees no longer try and find their way home if they end up in the Nether or the End dimension. 
* Bees can now be tempted and fed with two-high flowers.
* Bees will now attack if a player harvests honey from the hive at night. 
* Fixed a bug that was causing bees to not get angry when their hive was harvested.
* Bees now escape from the hive when it is on fire. ({{bug|MCPE-53609}})
* Changed return-to-home priority so that bees are more eager to go home when it's raining. 
* Bees no longer clip inside honey blocks when flying near them.
* Bees now spawn only in blocks the player can move through (instead of getting stuck inside leaves, for example).
* Bees are now able to gather nectar from flowers that have been placed in the Nether. 
* Bees now hover correctly over flowers, instead of beside them.
* If a bee's home hive is blocked, it will no longer hover endlessly outside the hive.
* Fixed an issue that was sometimes preventing bees from entering hives that are not full. 
* Baby pigmen now hold their swords in their hands, rather than around their necks. ({{bug|MCPE-53454}})

'''Items'''
* Dragon heads now appear at the correct height. ({{bug|MCPE-53129}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed a bug that was sometimes causing chests to become invisible. ({{bug|MCPE-52790}})
* Held items no longer render incorrectly in front of the worn pumpkin vignette.
* The block breaking animation will again show if a block is below water when the player is above.
* The player's hand no longer disappears when gliding with elytra. ({{bug|MCPE-53092}})

'''User interface'''
* Fixed an issue that could cause some UI flickering when navigating through the character creator.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Fixed an issue with entity geometry that was causing some custom mob models to break.
* Fixed an issue with particle billboarding that was causing them to appear flipped in the wrong direction.
* Fix for scaling item in hand rendered items when the mob scale is non 1.0.
* Fixed an issue with pivot points for custom geometry cube models.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.2]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.2]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.0.2]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.2]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.0.2]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.0.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.2]]