{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.2022.0<br>'''ChromeOS, Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.20.22
| image = Bedrock 1.21.20.22 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.20.22.png
| build = 26045258
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952102022 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962102022 (x86, 34)<br />
972102022 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982102022 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| editorver = 0.6.8
| date = July 10, 2024
| server = 1.21.20.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.20.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.20.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.20
| prevparent = 1.21.3
| prev = Preview 1.21.20.21
| next = Preview 1.21.20.23
| nextparent = 1.21.21
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.20.22''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.20.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the seventh beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20]], released on July 10, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/28289283945869|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.20.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=July 10, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Game Tips]]'''
* Added a game tip that informs players on touch devices that they are sneaking in order to avoid having new players stuck in crouch.
* Added some minor tip interruption improvements for existing game tips.

=== General ===
'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added the <code>one_way_collidable</code> block tag: contains {{cd|d=and|iron_door|wooden_door|spruce_door|birch_door|jungle_door|acacia_door|dark_oak_door|mangrove_door|cherry_door|bamboo_door|crimson_door|warped_door|copper_door|exposed_copper_door|weathered_copper_door|oxidized_copper_door|waxed_copper_door|waxed_exposed_copper_door|waxed_weathered_copper_door|waxed_oxidized_copper_door|iron_trapdoor|trapdoor|acacia_trapdoor|birch_trapdoor|dark_oak_trapdoor|jungle_trapdoor|spruce_trapdoor|crimson_trapdoor|warped_trapdoor|mangrove_trapdoor|bamboo_trapdoor|cherry_trapdoor|copper_trapdoor|exposed_copper_trapdoor|weathered_copper_trapdoor|oxidized_copper_trapdoor|waxed_copper_trapdoor|waxed_exposed_copper_trapdoor|waxed_weathered_copper_trapdoor|waxed_oxidized_copper_trapdoor|fence_gate|acacia_fence_gate|bamboo_fence_gate|birch_fence_gate|cherry_fence_gate|crimson_fence_gate|dark_oak_fence_gate|jungle_fence_gate|mangrove_fence_gate|spruce_fence_gate|warped_fence_gate}}
** Used to make mobs that are inside a block's collision box don't be pushed out.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Copper Door]]'''
* The "open" sound of copper doors are now pitched differently.

'''[[Anvil]]'''
* A damaged anvil block may now spawn in trail ruins, as it would in {{JE}}.
* The different damage [[block states]] for the <code>anvil</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="4" | {{BlockSprite|anvil-top}} <code>anvil</code>
| {{BlockSprite|anvil-top}} <code>anvil</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|chipped-anvil}} <code>chipped_anvil</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|damaged-anvil}} <code>damaged_anvil</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|deprecated-anvil}} <code>deprecated_anvil</code>
|}

'''[[Quartz Block]]'''
* The different chisel type [[block states]] for the <code>quartz_block</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="4" | {{BlockSprite|block-of-quartz}} <code>quartz_block</code>
| {{BlockSprite|block-of-quartz}} <code>quartz_block</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|chiseled-quartz-block}} <code>chiseled_quartz_block</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|quartz-pillar}} <code>quartz_pillar</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-quartz}} <code>smooth_quartz</code>
|}

'''[[Quartz Pillar]]'''
* Pillar Quartz Block has been renamed to Quartz Pillar.

'''[[Red Sandstone]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>red_sandstone</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="4" | {{BlockSprite|red-sandstone}} <code>red_sandstone</code>
| {{BlockSprite|red-sandstone}} <code>red_sandstone</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|chiseled-red-sandstone}} <code>chiseled_red_sandstone</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cut-red-sandstone}} <code>cut_red_sandstone</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-red-sandstone}} <code>smooth_red_sandstone</code>
|}

'''[[Smooth Red Sandstone]]'''
* Its hardness changed from 0.8 to 2.

'''[[Dirt]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>dirt</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="2" | {{BlockSprite|dirt}} <code>dirt</code>
| {{BlockSprite|dirt}} <code>dirt</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|coarse-dirt}} <code>coarse_dirt</code>
|}

'''[[Sand]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>sand</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="2" | {{BlockSprite|sand}} <code>sand</code>
| {{BlockSprite|sand}} <code>sand</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|red-sand}} <code>red_sand</code>
|}

=== General ===
'''[[Realms]]'''
* Player can now create up to 5 invite links per Realm.
* Invite links can be enabled or disabled at will, or set to have an expiration date in the future.
* Invite links can be deleted entirely.
* Newly created invite links codes will be 15 characters long (increased from 11).
* Existing Preview Realms will keep their existing invite links, but all new Preview Realms will start with 0 invite links by default moving forward.
* Removed an unnecessary warning from 2 Player realms subscription.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Dimension
** Released method {{cd|getTopmostBlock}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.13.0}}.
** Released interface {{cd|VectorXZ}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.13.0}}.

'''[[Block]]s'''
* The {{cd|blocks.json}} files found in resource packs are now versioned.
** Overriding the block {{cd|stone}} with a {{cd|format_version}} of {{cd|1.20.50}} or higher will assume the texture data in {{cd|terrain_texture.json}} is flattened and not using an array.
** Overriding the block {{cd|prismarine}} with a {{cd|format_version}} of {{cd|1.21.10}} or higher will assume the texture data in {{cd|terrain_texture.json}} is flattened and not using an array.
** Overriding the block {{cd|anvil}}, {{cd|quartz_block}}, {{cd|red_sandstone}}, {{cd|sand}}, and {{cd|sandstone}} with a {{cd|format_version}} of {{cd|1.21.20}} or higher will assume the texture data in {{cd|terrain_texture.json}} is flattened and not using an array.

'''Entity Components'''
* Added the {{cd|behavior.teleport_to_owner}} goal, which allows an entity to teleport to its owner.
** This goal is designed for emergency situations where {{cd|behavior.follow_owner}} could be too slow or too low priority.
** The {{cd|filters}} field allows defining the conditions for teleportation using entity filters.
** The {{cd|cooldown}} field allows defining how often the entity should attempt to teleport.
* {{cd|minecraft:behavior.move_away_from_target}} has been renamed to {{cd|minecraft:behavior.move_around_target}} to better describe what the goal does, since it can be used both for moving away from the target, but also to move toward a random position around the target.

'''Entity Filters'''
* Added new entity filter {{cd|owner_distance}}, which checks the distance of an entity from its owner.

'''Gameplay'''
* Modified {{cd|ItemUseInventoryTransaction}} packet by adding Trigger Type. This new value tells us if the packet is sent from a direct player input or the simulation tick from the button being held down.

'''General'''
* Entities that fail to load due to missing content will now be preserved inside the level. These entities will re-appear when the missing content becomes available (i.e removing and re-applying an [[add-on]]).

'''[[Item]]s'''
* Using {{cd|minecraft:wearable}} with slot set to {{cd|slot.weapon.offhand}} in combination with {{cd|minecraft:allow_off_hand}} set to {{cd|false}} will now cause a content error.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Camera
** Added {{cd|CameraFixedBoomOptions}} to the options for the {{cd|setCamera}} function in {{cd|beta}}.
*** New interface added to {{cd|beta}}.
*** Allows you to customize {{cd|minecraft:follow_orbit}} cameras only when the third person camera presets toggle is enabled.
*** Introduces {{cd|viewOffset?: Vector2}}. This property allows you to change the offset of the camera relative to the player to create an over the shoulder effect.

'''Graphical'''
* Extended {{cd|TextureSet}} capabilities to support Items in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Added the new bio-optical lighting model for water in the Deferred Technical Preview. The ability to customize and data-drive water will be made available in future updates.
* Added screen space reflections to the Deferred Technical Preview. These reflections are included as part of the Reflections quality slider in the Deferred graphics settings menu. On mobile devices, screen space reflections are only available when running at Ultra settings.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.20.22 Preview
|;old
|101893|Smooth quartz block blast resistance is wrong
|121664|Rooted Dirt uses gravel sounds instead of their distinctive sounds
|151807|{{cmd|/locate}} doesn't use {{cd|minecraft:}} namespace ID for structures
|178876|Bogged sit higher in boats and minecarts than other mobs
|180654|Differences in Ominous Vault loot from Java Edition
|180913|Torch moves in slot when being quick moved
|182681|Trial Explorer maps not showing trial chamber location
|;previous
|182290|Flattened monster eggs/infested stones do not have {{cd|stone}} sound assigned
|183434|Esc button can't be used to close the New Bed Screen
|otherissuescount=16}}
'''Other'''
* Fixed an issue where screen narration would not describe how to accept a game invitation on Android, iOS, and iPadOS.
* Text to speech for UI now reads the how to play screens by hovering over, tapping on or navigating to the respective headers and paragraphs.
* Trapdoors and fence gates no longer push players or mobs when activated by redstone.
* Mounts and vehicles are no longer given a slight velocity during a dismount.
* Fixed mob animations not playing when mobs were unloaded in split screen.
* Fixed an issue so that Marketplace content is properly imported before you create or start a world.
* Legacy worlds no longer have chunks at the edge of the world that don't render.
* Fixed fog JSON validation to allow for {{cd|max_density_height}} and {{cd|zero_density_height}} values to range from (-64,320).
* Fixed issues with the Realms button sticking around when it shouldn't or not showing up when it should.
* Fixed a bug that locked players on an infinite loop after cancelling the process of joining a recently claimed preview Realm.
* Fixed a bug where players with a freshly installed Minecraft needed to restart before being able to see Realms Stories.
* Cleaned up the disabled Realms Stories button interface on the pause screen when playing as a second user in split screen.
* Fix so that pressing "Join Realm" on the new Play screen does not lead into an empty void.
* Fixed a crash with {{cd|getTags}} method on item stack when called on the air block item.
* Fixed a bug on iOS and iPadOS that resulted in undefined graphics behavior (such as no point lights or washed-out lighting) in the Deferred Technical Preview. 
* Fixed a gamma-correction bug that caused the textures of candles, glass, ice, honey, slime, beacons, cauldrons and portals to be overly bright in the Deferred Technical Preview.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.20 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.20.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.20.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.20.22]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.20.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.20.22]]