{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.100.53.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.10053.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.10053.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.100.53<br>
|build=4584498
|parent=1.16.100
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' August 26, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.61
|prev=beta 1.16.100.52
|next=beta 1.16.100.54
|nextparent=1.16.101
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.100.53''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.100]], released on August 26, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360048751471|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.100.53 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 26, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''General'''
* Lava and water textures are now visible after placing Slime block or Honey block next to or above them. ({{bug|MCPE-62255}})
* End gateways will now correctly calculate distance to the center block when searching for an exit position. ({{bug|MCPE-48922}})
* Plants and crops now grow more consistently when near chunk borders.

'''Structure Blocks'''
* Removed the name field from the structure block 3D Export screen.
* Fixed incorrect chunk position calculation for block changes that occur during the structure block preview window.
* Structure loading/saving no longer affects ticking blocks in nearby chunks.
* Fixed the Reset button not re-rendering the wireframe bounding box.

'''Technical/Commands'''
* Fixed the logic that decides whether or not an entity can be summoned. Now you can summon an entity using the execute command, which this bug disallowed.
* Fixed particles when using animation controllers to play particles and switching to a different state that also plays particles.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.53]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.53]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.100.53]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.53]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.100.53]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.100.53 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.100.53]]