{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Amethyst 1.17.0.50.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.0.50.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.50.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.50.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.0.50<br>
|parent=1.17.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' April 21, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.221
|prev=beta 1.16.230.56
|next=beta 1.17.0.52
|nextparent=1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.0.50''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0]], released on April 21, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-changelog-1-17-0-50|title=Minecraft Changelog 1.17.0.50|website=minecraft.net|date=April 21, 2021}}</ref> which adds [[amethyst]], [[calcite]], [[raw metal]], [[spyglass]], [[tinted glass]] and [[tuff]].

It is the last beta release to support Android 4.2 and 4.3.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Amethyst Bud]]'''
* Grows from [[budding amethyst]], which is found in amethyst geodes.
* Starts out tiny, but grows into medium after a while, large after even more time, and eventually becomes an [[amethyst cluster]].
* Unlike crops, each growth stage is a separate block instead of a block state.
* Drops only when mined with a [[Silk Touch]] pickaxe.
* There is a total of 3 variants (stages).

'''[[Amethyst Cluster]]'''
* The final, mature stage of the amethyst bud, which grows from budding amethyst in amethyst geodes.
* Drops amethyst shards if broken, in an amount affected by Fortune, but can also be picked up with Silk Touch.
** Breaking by hand, [[piston]], or other means drops only 2 amethyst shards instead of 4 that would be dropped by using any [[pickaxe]].
* Emits a light level of 5.

'''[[Amethyst Block]]'''
* A decorative block found in amethyst geodes.
* Unlike Budding Amethyst, the Block of Amethyst can be obtained when mined.
* Can also be crafted with 4 amethyst shards.

'''[[Block of Mineral#Raw Metal|Block of Raw Metal]]'''
* [[Raw copper]], [[raw gold]] and [[raw iron]] can be crafted into the respective block of raw metal.

'''[[Budding Amethyst]]'''
* Generates amethyst buds/clusters on any side that is exposed either to air or a water source block.
* Cannot be obtained when mined, even with Silk Touch, and does not drop anything.
* Breaks immediately if pushed by a [[piston]] or sticky piston.
** Cannot be pulled by sticky pistons.
* Generates in amethyst geodes.

'''[[Calcite]] '''
* An off-white stone that generates in geodes, between [[smooth basalt]] and [[Block of Amethyst|amethyst]].

'''[[Smooth Basalt]]'''
* A [[basalt]] variant that composes the outer layer of amethyst geodes.
* Can be obtained by smelting [[basalt]].

'''[[Tinted Glass]]'''
* A black variant of glass that is transparent to players, but does not let light through.
* Can be crafted with 4 amethyst shards and a glass block.
** Stained glass cannot be used to craft tinted glass.
* Drops itself if mined without [[Silk Touch]] or even by hand, unlike [[glass]].

'''[[Tuff]]'''
* A deep grayish stone that can generate in blobs between Y = 16 to Y = 0 of the world.

=== Items ===
'''[[Amethyst Shard]]'''
* Obtained from breaking amethyst clusters.
* The amount dropped can be increased with the [[Fortune]] enchantment.
* Can be used to craft tinted glass, blocks of amethyst, and spyglasses.

'''[[Raw Metal|Raw metal]]'''
* Added [[raw iron]], [[raw copper]] and [[raw gold]].
** Drop from their respective [[ore]].
*** The ores can still be obtained with [[Silk Touch]].
** Can be smelted into an ingot.
** [[Piglin]]s attempt to pick up raw gold.

'''[[Spyglass]]'''
* Crafted with 2 copper ingots and an amethyst shard.
* When used, it zooms in on wherever the player is looking but limits their view to a square.
** The scope [[texture]] is a [[glass]] square with a [[copper]] border.
** The overlay that limits the view can be removed with a [[resource pack]].
* There is a unique animation for using the spyglass, which is visible in a third-person perspective or by another player.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Amethyst Geode]]s'''
* A new feature found uncommonly underground (can rarely appear exposed to the surface close to sea level).
* Contains blocks of amethyst and budding amethyst blocks, which are encased in a shell of calcite and tuff.
** Also generates with a small air pocket nearby which may open into the geode.
* Most commonly generates at lower levels. (y = 6 to y = 47)
* Overrides standard caves and ravines, but is overridden by mineshafts.

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added "Spyglass Damping" scale option ranging from 0 to 100.
** Sets the camera movement speed when looking through a Spyglass to make it more comfortable to use.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Azalea Leaves]] and [[Flowering Azalea Leaves]]'''
* Now have a chance to drop Azalea or Flowering Azalea when broken.

'''[[Blackstone]], [[gilded blackstone]], and [[stair]], [[slab]] and [[wall]] variants'''
* Slightly changed the texture.

'''[[Block of Copper]]'''
* Copper surfaces now deoxidize in a more random pattern when struck by lightning.
* Horizontally placed Lightning Rods now interact properly with respect to de-oxidizing Copper Blocks.
* Copper Blocks struck by lightning now deoxidize even if there's no Lightning Rod present.
* Added sounds for scrapping off wax and oxidization.

'''[[Deepslate Coal Ore]], [[Deepslate Copper Ore]], and [[Deepslate Lapis Lazuli Ore]]'''
* Changed and slightly tweaked the textures of these blocks.

'''[[Cobbled Deepslate]]'''
* Can now be used as crafting material for tools, furnaces, and brewing stands. 

'''[[Glow Item Frame]]'''
* Glow Item Frame textures are no longer inconsistent between Bedrock and ''Java''.
* Now produces redstone signals.

'''[[Glow Lichen]]'''
* Now available outside the Caves & Cliffs experiments toggle.
* Can now be placed with all six faces set.

'''[[Grass Block|Snowy Grass Block]]'''
* Changed snowy grass block side texture.

'''[[Lightning Rod]]'''
* Blocks connected to a Lightning Rod now correctly conduct redstone signal when the rod is hit by lightning.

'''[[Moss Block]]'''
* Can now replace Dirt, Podzol, Rooted Dirt, Stone, and Cave Vines.

'''[[Pointed Dripstone]]'''
* If a stalactite is hanging from a dripstone block with a water source above, it will slowly grow both the stalactite from above and a stalagmite from below.
** Growth speed is random but very slow; a single growth step can take several in-game days.
* A stalactite will only grow up to 7 blocks long.
* A stalactite will only cause stalagmite growth if the floor or stalagmite below is within 10 blocks.
* If the stalactite tip is inside water it won’t drip, and therefore will not trigger any growth.
* If the stalagmite tip is inside water or there is a fluid between the two dripstone blocks, it will not receive the water drops, and therefore will not be grown by a dripping stalactite.
** A stalagmite or stalactite will never grow when submerged in fluid.

'''[[Powder Snow]]'''
* Now available outside the Caves & Cliffs experiments toggle.
* Powder Snow blocks are now removed by flowing water and lava.

'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Changed the textures of oak signs to reflect new textures in the [[Texture Update]].

'''[[Small Dripleaf]]'''
* Applying [[bone meal]] to small dripleaves now creates big dripleaves of a random height between 1-5 blocks.

'''[[Smoker]]'''
* Changed the top texture of the smoker.

=== Items ===
'''[[Jungle Door]]s'''
* Changed the texture of the jungle door item to reflect the block texture in the Texture Update.

'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Changed textures of all [[sign]] items.

'''[[Sugar Cane]]'''
* Changed the texture of the sugar cane item to better reflect biome tinting.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Axolotl]]'''
* Bucketing an Axolotl no longer unlocks the "I am a Marine Biologist" achievement.
* Now much more likely to spawn.
* No longer grant themselves regeneration when killing their target.

'''[[Foxes]]'''
* Can now walk over powder snow without sinking.

'''[[Guardian]] and [[Elder Guardian]]'''
* Removed some stray pixels from the texture file.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Painting]]s'''
* Changed the back texture to reflect the planks texture in the Texture Update.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Dripstone Caves]]'''
* Now randomly generate rarely underground
** Can only be generated by enabling "Caves & Cliffs" toggle in the world settings.

'''[[Lush Caves]]'''
* Now randomly generate rarely underground
** Can only be generated by enabling "Caves & Cliffs" toggle in the world settings.

'''[[Mineshaft]]'''
* Cobwebs no longer generate suspended in the air in mineshaft.

=== Sounds ===
'''[[Bone Meal]]'''
* Added sounds for using [[Bone Meal|bone meal]].

'''General'''
* Added distinct damage sounds for burning, freezing, and drowning.
* Walking sound will now play below y=0.

=== Technical ===
'''Actors'''
* Internal state flag {{cd|CAN_RIDE_TARGET}} that was stopping interactions with items will be properly set/cleared when looking at a mob that cannot be ridden.

'''General '''
* Added two new variables to the biomes_client.json file: {{cd|remove_all_prior_fog}} and {{cd|inherit_from_prior_fog}}, which control fog merging and/or inheritance.
** {{cd|remove_all_prior_fog}}, when true, will clear all previous fog definitions stored on the stack, making the current pack the new "starting point" for fogs.
** {{cd|inherit_from_prior_fog}}, when true, will merge a biome's fog definition with matching biomes on the stack then create a new merged definition for it.
* {{cd|transparentattachable}} tag should only affect rendering in first person camera perspective.

== Fixes ==
'''Caves & Cliffs'''
* Player now receives experience points after breeding Axolotls ({{bug|MCPE-123708}})
* Copper Stairs now produce their unique footstep sounds at positions below y=0 ({{bug|MCPE-121955}})
* Cobbled Deepslate, Deepslate Bricks, and Deepslate Tiles now give experience from smelting in a Furnace ({{bug|MCPE-123671}})
* Landing on Dripstone no longer deals fall damage when gamerule falldamage is set to false
* Dripstone Block is now correctly named ({{bug|MCPE-119573}})
* Only the tips of stalagmites deal increased fall damage ({{bug|MCPE-119917}})
* Cauldrons fill slightly faster with water from dripping stalactites
* Throwing a Channeling trident at a rod during a thunderstorm now correctly converts nearby mobs ({{bug|MCPE-116137}})
* Throwing a Channeling trident at a rod during a thunderstorm now correctly affects villagers
* Moss Carpet now has Block Placing sound ({{bug|MCPE-121663}})
* Azalea and Flowering Azalea now have ambient occlusion ({{bug|MCPE-121660}})
* Powder Snow blocks are now removed by flowing water and lava ({{bug|MCPE-111729}})
* Foxes can now walk on Powder Snow ({{bug|MCPE-116836}})
* Exiting a world while being slowed down from freezing will no longer keep the Character slowed after rejoining ({{bug|MCPE-117814}})
* Powder Snow now only applies the freeze component to entities server-side
* Glow Lichen no longer generates floating in air
* Glow Lichen can no longer exist with no faces present

'''General'''
* Fixed invite icon remaining on start screen after signing out of Microsoft account.

'''Accessibility '''
* Fixed a bug where Text-to-speech read the wrong text when displaying toasts.

'''Commands'''
* Fixed issue where {{cmd|structure delete}} command is listed in the middle of both {{cmd|structure load}} commands ({{bug|MCPE-114022}}).
* Fixed issue where the {{cmd|stopsound}} command crashes/freezes the game completely ({{bug|MCPE-120336}}).

'''Gameplay'''
* Renamed Structure Blocks will no longer have the incorrect data mode on creation ({{bug|MCPE-41625}}).

'''Graphical'''
* Cubemap no longer blinks when loading the game, loading into a world or leaving a world ({{bug|MCPE-103842}}).
* Fixed Strider, Hoglin, Zoglin, Piglin, Piglin Brute Spawn Eggs turning red when quick-moved inside any Inventory in RenderDragon builds.
* Fixed enchantment glint shape of Charged Bow and Crossbow icons in RenderDragon builds.

'''Items'''
* Using an axe on Wood blocks turns them into Stripped Wood blocks ({{bug|MCPE-105998}}).
* Fixed items playing “attack” and “using” animations at the same time on touch input ({{bug|MCPE-117133}}).

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Critical hit particles now generate around a mob instead of under it ({{bug|MCPE-39599}}).

'''Scoreboards'''
* Fixed a crash that sometimes happened when an entity with a scoreboard value was removed from the level.

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Added content warnings for invalid map item parent id caused by the outdated Marketplace world templates.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.0.50]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.0.50]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.0.50]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.0.50 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.0.50]]