{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.30.20 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.30.20.png
| build = 17116428
| editorver = 0.4.2
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.3020.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.30.20<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.3020.70<br>
| server = 1.20.30.20
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952003020（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962003020（x86，33）<br>
972003020（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982003020（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = August 3, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.30.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.30.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.30
| prevparent = 1.20.15
| prev = Preview 1.20.20.23
| next = Preview 1.20.30.21
| nextparent = 1.20.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.30.20''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.30.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fifth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.30]], released on August 3, 2023<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/18193982477069-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-30-20|title=Minecraft - beta 1.20.30.20 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 3, 2023}}</ref>
, which brings more parity from {{JE}}, changes some [[villager]] trades, changes the [[diamond ore]] generation, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Game rule]]s'''
* Added <code>doLimitedCrafting</code>, controls whether players can craft only those recipes that they have unlocked, defaults to <code>false</code>.

=== General ===
'''[[Experiments]]'''
* Added the "[[Villager Trade Rebalancing]]" experimental toggle.
** Contains updated trades for villagers for the purpose of rebalancing.
* Added the "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experimental toggle.
** Enable the deferred rendering pipeline. Requires a PBR-enabled resource pack and compatible hardware.

'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added "Vertical Sync" video option.

=== Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Released the <code>minecraft:enchantable</code> item component out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.30 and higher.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Concrete Powder]]'''
* The IDs of <code>concrete_powder</code> have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="16" | {{BlockSprite|concrete-powder}} <code>concrete_powder</code>
| {{BlockSprite|white-concrete-powder}} <code>white_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|orange-concrete-powder}} <code>orange_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|magenta-concrete-powder}} <code>magenta_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|light-blue-concrete-powder}} <code>light_blue_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|yellow-concrete-powder}} <code>yellow_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|lime-concrete-powder}} <code>lime_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|pink-concrete-powder}} <code>pink_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|gray-concrete-powder}} <code>gray_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|light-gray-concrete-powder}} <code>light_gray_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cyan-concrete-powder}} <code>cyan_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|purple-concrete-powder}} <code>purple_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|blue-concrete-powder}} <code>blue_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|brown-concrete-powder}} <code>brown_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|green-concrete-powder}} <code>green_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|red-concrete-powder}} <code>red_concrete_powder</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|black-concrete-powder}} <code>black_concrete_powder</code>
|}

'''[[Sculk Sensor]] and [[Calibrated Sculk Sensor]]'''
* Can now detect the following events:
** Throwing an [[eye of ender]].
** [[Minecart]]s, consistently when moving on [[rail]]s while empty.
** Collecting [[fish]], [[axolotl]]s, and [[tadpole]]s with [[bucket]]s.
** Cleaning items in [[cauldron]]s.
** Dying leather [[armor]] in cauldrons.
** [[Arrow|Tipping arrow]]s in cauldrons.
** Using [[dye]]s to change cauldrons' water color.
** Non-player actors event when equipping [[shield]]s in their off-hand slot.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Anvil]], [[Big Dripleaf]], [[Blast Furnace]], [[Calibrated Sculk Sensor]], [[Campfire]], [[End Portal Frame]], [[Furnace]], [[Lectern]], [[Pink Petals]], [[Redstone Comparator]], [[Redstone Repeater]], [[Small Dripleaf]], [[Smoker]], and [[Soul Campfire]]'''
* Now they use the <code>minecraft:cardinal_direction</code> [[block state]] instead of <code>direction</code> or <code>facing_direction</code>.
** <code>minecraft:cardinal_direction</code> uses four string values <code>["north", "south", "east", "west"]</code>.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Ore]] distribution'''
* [[Diamond ore]] is now generated more frequently in the [[deepslate]] layers of the Overworld.
** Added a new ore blob placement: Uniform distributed, from height -64 to -4, with blob size 8, generation frequency 2 and a 50% chance of discarding when exposed to air.
** Other existing diamond ore placements remain untouched.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "[[Villager Trade Rebalancing]]", "Beta APIs", and "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[Deferred Technical Preview]]'''
* Introducing new experimental cross-platform graphics features for creators.
* Features included:
** PBR materials – blocks and entities.
** Primary lighting.
** Shadows (sun & moon).
** Bloom.
** Tone mapping.
** Atmospheric scattering.

=== Changes ===
==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Trading]]'''
* Changed the trading mechanism of librarians selling enchanted books.
** Instead of offering every possible enchanted book, librarians will now be offering specific enchanted books depending on which biome they come from.
*** Jungle and swamp villages do not generate naturally. Thus, players must breed villagers or cure zombie villagers in these biomes to access their trades.
** All tradable enchanted books now split to special books and normal books.
*** Special books have a specific enchantment with a fixed level, and are only available from master librarians with full XP.
*** Normal books have a specific enchantment without a fixed level, just like before.
** All enchantments used for [[crossbow]], [[fishing rod]], and [[trident]] are removed from trading.
:: {| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Available tradable enchantments
|-
! Category
! Desert
! Plains
! Savanna
! Snow
! Taiga
! Jungle
! Swamp
|-
| Special
| [[Efficiency]] III
| [[Protection]] III
| [[Sharpness]] III
| [[Silk Touch]]
| [[Fortune]] II
| [[Unbreaking]] II
| [[Mending]]
|-
| Normal
| [[Fire Protection]]<br>[[Thorns]]<br>[[Infinity]]
| [[Punch]]<br>[[Smite]]<br>[[Bane of Arthropods]]
| [[Knockback]]<br>[[Curse of Binding]]
| [[Aqua Affinity]]<br>[[Looting]]<br>[[Frost Walker]]
| [[Blast Protection]]<br>[[Fire Aspect]]<br>[[Flame]]
| [[Feather Falling]]<br>[[Projectile Protection]]<br>[[Power]]
| [[Depth Strider]]<br>[[Respiration]]<br>[[Curse of Vanishing]]
|}

* Changed the [[wandering trader]] trades.
** Trade list now made up by following trades, in order:
*** Buying Trade (new) × 2
*** Special Selling Trade × 2
*** Ordinary Selling Trade × 5
** Added new buying trades, some selling trades, and changed some existing selling trades:
:: {| class="wikitable"
|+ New trades of wandering traders
! Category
! Item wanted
! Quantity
! Item given
! Quantity
! Trades until disabled
|-
| Buying
| {{ItemLink|Baked Potato}}
| 4
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| 1
|-
| Buying
| {{ItemLink|Fermented Spider Eye}}
| 1
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 3
| 1
|-
| Buying
| {{BlockLink|Hay Bale}}
| 1
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| 1
|-
| Buying
| {{ItemLink|Milk Bucket}}
| 1
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 2
| 1
|-
| Buying
| {{ItemLink|Water Bottle}}
| 1
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| 1
|-
| Buying
| {{ItemLink|Water Bucket}}
| 1
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 2
| 1
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Acacia Log}}
| 8
| 4
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Birch Log}}
| 8
| 4
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Cherry Log}}
| 8
| 4
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Dark Oak Log}}
| 8
| 4
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 6-20
| {{ItemLink|Iron Pickaxe}} (Enchanted)
| 1
| 1
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Jungle Log}}
| 8
| 4
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Oak Log}}
| 8
| 4
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 5
| {{ItemLink|Potion of Invisibility}} (Long)
| 1
| 1
|-
| Special Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Spruce Log}}
| 8
| 4
|}
:: {| class="wikitable"
|+ Changed trades of wandering traders
! Category
! Item wanted
! Quantity
! Item given
! Quantity
! Trades until disabled
|-
| Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Brown Mushroom}}
| 1 -> 3
| 12 -> 4
|-
| Special Selling -> Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 5 -> 3
| {{ItemLink|Bucket of Pufferfish}}
| 1
| 4
|-
| Special Selling -> Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 5 -> 3
| {{ItemLink|Bucket of Tropical Fish}}
| 1
| 4
|-
| Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{ItemLink|Gunpowder}}
| 1 -> 4
| 8 -> 2
|-
| Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Lily Pad}}
| 2 -> 5
| 5 -> 2
|-
| Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 3 -> 1
| {{BlockLink|Packed Ice}}
| 1
| 6
|-
| Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Red Mushroom}}
| 1 -> 3
| 12 -> 4
|-
| Ordinary Selling
| {{ItemLink|Emerald}}
| 1
| {{BlockLink|Vines}}
| 1 -> 3
| 12 -> 4
|}

==== Technical ====
'''[[Add-on|API]]'''
* Removed <code>MinecraftItemTypes</code> from <code>@minecraft/server</code> and replaced with version from <code>@minecraft/vanilla-data</code>.
* Added function <code>remove-</code> Removes the entity. This cannot be called on players but can be used on ''simulated players'' in <code>Gametest</code>.
* <code>MolangVariableMap</code>
** Added <code>setFloat</code> function.
** Changed return type of <code>setColorRBG</code>, <code>setColorRGBA</code>, <code>setSpeedAndDirection</code>, and <code>setVector3</code> to <code>void</code>.
** Changed the <code>MolangVariableMap</code> property on <code>spawnParticle</code> to be optional: <code>spawnParticle(effectName: string, location: Vector3, molangVariables?: MolangVariableMap): void</code>.
* Renamed <code>Colorinterface</code> to <code>RGBA</code>.
* Added interface <code>RGB</code>.
* Added script binding functions to get/set the <code>CompoundBlockVolume</code> origin.
* Added additional params to some methods to query the children of <code>CompoundBlockVolume</code> for their positional relativity to the parent.
* Added additional params to some methods to freeze positional relativty when origin changes are submitted.
* Converting the <code>CompoundBlockVolume</code> container to use relative coordinates to an internal origin.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* <code>cooldown</code> field for target descriptors now properly work in <code>minecraft:behavior.nearest_prioritized_attackable_target</code> goal.
* Deprecated <code>minecraft:mining_speed</code> in JSON formats 1.20.30 and higher.
* Fixed an issue where items with format version 1.20.20 and above using the <code>menu_category</code> field in a world with the "Holiday Creator Features" experimental toggle enabled would not load.
* Removed <code>minecraft:requires_interact</code> component.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.30.20 Preview
|;From released versions before 1.20.0
|19700|Wrong elytra texture in item frame and hand.
|62797|Pickaxes don't speed up piston breaking.
|81790|Villagers can change their profession in the night time/during raids.
|85429|Camera does not pass through glass, glass panes and iron bars.
|98861|Significant input delay on devices with render dragon.
|151745|Undead mobs equips illager banner instead of hold it in mainhand slot.
|157055|Powering or unpowering a repeater or comparator in flowing water briefly blocks the water flow.
|159409|Hasitem/data argument does not on items that use data as "damage".
|161134|Renamed entity or some blocks have container with format "(text)text" display <code>$container_title</code>.
|161438|Raid boss bar becomes automatically empty when defeated.
|162253|Book and quill not making sounds while using Xbox controller bumpers.
|165062|Sleeping under an end portal causes the game to get stuck on the loading screen and summons a nether portal.
|165301|Unknown block.
|167403|Cannot crouch while flying in Creative with touch controls.
|168998|Redstone transmission through custom <code>minecraft:block</code> is inconsistent.
|169728|Bulk item crafting buggy.
|169840|Backspace does not erase all text when pressed.
|;From 1.20 versions
|171822|Cherry grove uses the 1.16.100 water fog
|172835|Pressing enter while not at end of text in chat deletes everything ahead of it.
|172910|Setting the <code>playerssleepingpercentage</code> gamerule to 0 or on negative numbers skips the sleeping animation.
|172917|There is no chat message for when skipping the night is not possible with <code>playerssleepingpercentage</code> set above 100.
|173028|"Detected lost connection" and "Abandoned connection closed" error message is untranslated.
|173189|[ScriptAPI] Some characters are counted as 2 or 3 characters in the character count check of the <code>setLore()</code> method.
|otherissuescount=3}}
'''Other'''
* Third person camera no longer clips through snow, mud, and soul sand.
* Fixed an issue with the client failing to attempt connection to dedicated server in some situations.
* Fixed a bug that autocomplete suggestions for values coming after brackets are missing if there is no space between tilde (as Z coordinate) and block name in commands.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.30.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.20.30.20]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.30.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.30.20]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.30.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.30.20]]