{{Infobox version
| edition = Bedrock
| image = Non-Experimental 1.17.0.54.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.17.0.54.png
| image3 = Bedrock 1.17.0.54 Caves & Cliffs.png
| type = Beta
| internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.54.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.54.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.0.54<br>
| parent = 1.17.0
| date = '''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': May 6, 2021
| prevparent = 1.16.221
| prev = beta 1.17.0.52
| next = beta 1.17.0.56
| nextparent = 1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.0.54''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0]], released on May 6, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360060922491|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.0.54 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=May 6, 2021}}</ref> which added [[infested deepslate]] and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Infested Deepslate]]'''
* An infested variant of deepslate.
* Spawn a silverfish when mined.
* Infested Deepslate can be found in [[Extreme Hills]] biomes.

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added Creator settings tab.
** Currently only has content log settings.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Add-ons]]'''
* Added Volumes feature.
** Create volumes in your world: simply create a "volumes" folder in a saved world, and put JSON files in there - 1 JSON file per volume.
** Currently, the player can attach a fog - minecraft or your own custom fog - to a volume. When the player enters the volume, the fog will take effect.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===

'''[[Azalea Leaves]] and [[Flowering Azalea Leaves]]'''
* Now drop themself when mined with [[Silk Touch]] tools.

'''[[Block of Copper]]'''
* Are now crafted from 9 copper ingots, instead of 4.
* Can now be crafted down into 9 Copper Ingots.

'''[[Block of Mineral#Raw Metal|Block of Raw Metal]]'''
* Tweaked the textures of [[block of raw iron|raw iron blocks]], [[block of raw copper|raw copper blocks]], and [[block of raw gold|raw gold blocks]].

'''[[Copper Ore|Copper]] and [[Copper Ore|Deepslate Copper]] Ore'''
* Now drops 2–3 raw copper when mined, or more when using a tool enchanted with Fortune.

'''[[Deepslate]]'''
* Changed deepslate texture match to [[Java Edition]].

'''[[Pointed Dripstone]]'''
* Stalactites now drip water a bit more often when filling [[Cauldron]]s.

'''[[Powder Snow]]'''
* Dispensers can now dispense a Powder Snow Block using a Powder Snow Bucket.
* Mining time of Powder Snow Block now matches mining time in ''Java Edition''.

'''[[Rooted Dirt]]'''
* Tilling Rooted Dirt no longer instantly turns it into a Farmland block.

'''[[Spore Blossom]]'''
* Spore Blossom can no longer be waterlogged.

=== Items ===
'''[[Clock]]'''
* The texture has been changed. The gold is now more vibrant and better matches other instances of gold in the [[Texture Update]] texture.

'''[[Compass]]'''
* The texture has been changed. The iron is now more vibrant and better matches other instances of iron in the Texture Update texture.

'''[[Raw Metal]]'''
* Tweaked the texture.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Axolotl]]'''
* Axolotls no longer play dead on land.

'''[[Goat]]'''
* Added new sounds.
* Added the screaming goats.
** Increased chances of getting screamer goat by breeding screamer goat with non-screamer goat.

'''[[Piglin]]'''
* Piglins now admire Deepslate Gold Ore, Raw Gold, and Block of Raw Gold.

'''[[Squid]] and [[Glow Squid]]'''
* Now make a specific sound when they let ink out.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Mineshaft]]s'''
* Minecarts with Chests can also appear in Mineshafts at -y.

'''[[Stronghold]]'''
* Strongholds will be more hidden in larger caves.

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Moved content log settings from Profile to the new Creator settings.

'''[[Title Screen|Title screen]]'''
* The main menu background is now in an [[amethyst geode]].
** The new background however is not visible due to the beta resource packs being applied in all beta versions.

=== Technical ===
'''GameTest Framework'''
* Components
** Removed <code>function setColor(color : Number)</code>
** <code>property value : Number</code>
*** Gets or sets the color of the entity
** Added additional component interfaces. movement, navigation, healable, breathable, ageable, and tameable components can be referenced via <code>entity.getComponent(componentName : string)</code>
** <code>minecraft:color</code>
* Container - New interface for interacting with entity containers. Can be referenced via <code>entity.getComponent("inventory").container</code>
** <code>function setItem(slot : Number, itemStack : ItemStack)</code>
*** Adds itemStack to the container at the given slot
** <code>function getItem(slot : Number) : ItemStack</code> 
*** Gets the itemStack at the given slot
** <code>function addItem(itemStack : ItemStack)</code> 
*** Adds the given itemStack to the first available slot of the container
** <code>function transferItem(fromSlot : Number, toSlot : Number, toContainer : Container)</code> 
*** Transfers an ItemStack from fromSlot of the container to toSlot of toContainer
** <code>function swapItems(slot : Number, otherSlot : Number, otherContainer : Container)</code> 
*** Swaps ItemStacks between slot of the container and otherSlot of otherContainer
** <code>function worldLocation(relativeLocation : BlockLocation)</code> 
*** Transforms the coordinates of given GameTest location to its corresponding world location
** <code>function relativeLocation(worldLocation : BlockLocation)</code> 
*** Transforms the coordinates of given world location to its corresponding GameTest location

== Fixes ==
'''Caves & Cliffs'''
* Axolotl can no longer move on its own while playing dead ({{bug|MCPE-124128}}).
* Skeletons no longer freeze when standing inside of Powder Snow, and will transform into strays after 45 seconds ({{bug|MCPE-116781}}).
* Mobs can now pathfind properly on top of Powder Snow ({{bug|MCPE-118214}}).
* Vanilla Parity: Powder Snow can no longer support Scaffolding ({{bug|MCPE-120947}}).
* Players can no longer Jump on top of Powder Snow to avoid sinking ({{bug|MCPE-112023}}).
* Copper now has correct graphical and sound effects when waxing/dewaxing ({{bug|MCPE-121827}}).
* Old signs no longer glow when being dyed ({{bug|MCPE-117835}}).
* Underside of leaves now render correctly when placed on top of Copper Slabs.
* Fixed an issue where first person offhand items were rendered when zooming in with the Spyglass ({{bug|MCPE-125825}}).
* Spyglass is now part of the "Equipment" category in the Creative inventory ({{bug|MCPE-126079}}).

'''Translation '''
* Removed the translation key for lit deepslate redstone ore ({{bug|MCPE-123605}}).

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Falling blocks now break when landing on Shulkers.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed controller cursor sensitivity scaling ({{bug|MCPE-33868}}).
* Fixed a bug preventing users from reassigning key 'E' in "Keyboard & Mouse" settings ({{bug|MCPE-124224}}).

'''Commands'''
* Fixed issue where Minecart with Command Block was not affected by the 'CommandBlocksEnabled' gamerule ({{bug|MCPE-93666}}).

'''Multiplayer'''
* The {{cmd|kick}} command works properly if cheats and command blocks are disabled, and it no longer uses target selectors.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.0.54]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.0.54]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.0.54]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.0.54 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.0.54]]