{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.9.1
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = March 11, 2025
| client = 1.21.80.20
| prevparent = 0.9.0
| prev = 
| next = 0.9.2
| nextparent = 1.0.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.9.1''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on March 11, 2025, which changes the selection system and fixes bugs.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/225</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/34870603664909-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-80-20|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.80.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 11, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added a new {{cd|RelativeVolumeListBlockVolume}} volume type for Editor use to replace {{cd|CompoundBlockVolume}}.
* Added a new Client Widget Bounding Box and Volume Outline components.
* Added keyboard repeat to cursor controls.
* Added visualization to Smart Fill tool.
* Added visualization to Extrude tool.
* Added visualization to Line tool.
* Added fields "Spawn Position", "Time of Day" and "Weather" in a new section of initial play settings.
* Added feedback UI to show the progress and result.
* Added a "Custom Mapping" subpane to the Workbench extension which adds the ability to add mappings for custom block properties.
* Added global keybind for activating Workbench.
* Added a tool mode key shortcut for Reload operation, it will be unbound by default.

== Changes ==
'''Selection'''
* Selection system has been completely overhauled and now leverage client widgets.
** Selection Marquee now support click and drag to select.
** Selection Marquee still supports opposing corner mode using {{keys|CTRL}} key.
** Marquee and Freehand selection now support undo and redo.
** Widgets colors are integrated with the theme manager.
** Updates to keyboard shortcuts:
*** Keyboard control for selection volumes now supports keyboard repeat.
***(Marquee) {{keys|SHIFT+Click}} create multiple volumes.
***(Freehand) {{keys|SHIFT+CTRL}} removes brush voxels from selection.
***(Freehand) {{keys|SHIFT}} adds brush voxels to existing selection.
*** {{keys|ALT+Arrow}} keys move the selection volume (Marquee & Freehand).
*** {{keys|CTRL+Arrow}} keys resize the selection volume (Marquee only).
*** {{keys|ENTER}} selects a volume.
*** {{keys|SHIFT+ENTER}} selects an additional volume.
*** {{keys|CTRL+S}} enters selection mode. {{keys|CTRL+S}} again (while in selection mode) cycles between Marquee and Freehand.

'''Other'''
* Improved performance on Smart Fill & Extrude.
* Updated brush shape settings to be local to the modal tool and specific configuration of that tool.
* Removed {{cd|registerBrushShape}} from {{cd|BrushShapeManager}} API, only core brushes will be supported for core tools.
* Updated icon for delete inside the selection tool.
* Updated naming of color setters and getters in the Widget system to use the same terminology (Outline for borders, Hull for fills, Highlight for specialized borders).
* Removed deprecated property pane API.
* Removed {{cd|CompoundBlockVolume}} usage in Editor Script APIs.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug that prevented theme to be changed to Redstone from UI Settings.
* Fixed a bug that caused Keyboard Settings buttons to be misaligned in certain resolutions.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.9.1]]
[[ru:0.9.1 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.9.1 (Bedrock Editor)]]