{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0.09}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.9.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.9.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.9<br>
|image=Bedrock 1.13.0.9.png
|parent=1.13.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10''': August 27, 2019<br>'''Android''': September 2, 2019<ref>{{tweet|Mega_Spud|1168589323245162496|The 1.13.0.9 Beta has finally become available on the Android store - thanks for your patience everyone!|September 2, 2019}}</ref>
|prevparent=1.12.1
|prev=beta 1.13.0.6
|next=beta 1.13.0.13
|nextparent=1.13.1
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.9''' is the sixth beta version released for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]],<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360032515012|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.9 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=August 27, 2019}}</ref> which adds [[brown mooshroom]]s, [[dead coral]], [[suspicious stew]], [[wither rose]]s, and more.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dead coral]]'''
* A dead variant of coral that is made when coral is placed on the surface or does not have [[water]].
* Can be placed on top of blocks.

'''[[Flower]]s'''
* Added wither roses.
** Can be crafted into [[black dye]].
** Inflict 1 second of the [[Wither (status effect)|Wither]] effect to [[player]]s and [[mob]]s around it, when in any difficulty besides [[Peaceful]].
** Are dropped or planted from any non-undead mob killed by the [[wither]].

'''[[Note block]]s'''
* Added 11 new note block sounds:
** {{BlockLink|Bone block}} = Xylophone
** {{BlockLink|Block of gold}} = Bell
** {{BlockLink|Clay|link=Clay (block)}} = Flute
** {{BlockLink|Packed ice}} = Chime
** {{BlockLink|Wool|id=white-wool}} = Guitar
** {{BlockLink|Block of iron}} = Iron Xylophone
** {{BlockLink|Soul sand}} = Cow Bell
** {{BlockLink|Carved pumpkin|Pumpkin}} = Didgeridoo
** {{BlockLink|Block of emerald}} = Bit
** {{BlockLink|Hay bale}} = Banjo
** {{BlockLink|Glowstone}} = Pling

=== Items ===
'''[[Suspicious stew]]'''
* Can be crafted with a red and brown [[mushroom]], a [[bowl]], and any [[flower]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Brown mooshroom]]s'''
* Spawn when a red mooshroom is struck by a [[lightning]] bolt.
* Can be fed flowers then milked for a suspicious stew.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Village]]s'''
* Added abandoned villages.
** Re-added zombie villages but in use of the new village structures.

=== General ===
'''[[Credits]]'''
* Added game credits.
** These can be viewed after defeating the [[ender dragon]], and also through a new button found in the Settings menu.

'''[[Patrol]]s'''
* Can now spawn in any [[biome]] except [[the Nether]] and [[mushroom fields]].
* Delay is now 10-11 minutes, instead of 5-6 minutes.
* Now attack in swarms.

'''[[Raid]]s'''
* Added [[villager]] celebration for a successful raid defense.
* Added [[illager]] celebration for an unsuccessful raid defense.
'''[[Heads-up display|UI]]'''

* Changed the sign in button size, reverting the size of [[Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha|Pocket Edition v0.16.0 Alpha]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Grass path]]s'''
* Can now be found in the [[Creative]] inventory.

'''[[Item frame]]s'''
* Can now be placed on the top and bottom of blocks.

=== Items ===
'''[[Turtle egg]]s'''
* Now have 2D textures in the inventory.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Fish]]'''
* Now drop [[experience]] when killed.

'''[[Player]]s'''
* Are now 1.8 blocks tall. ({{bug|MCPE-31710}})

'''[[Squid]]'''
* Can now spawn in [[river]]s.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Can now heal if they have [[bread]] in their inventory.

=== General ===
'''How to Play'''
* Added a section for [[structure block]]s.
* Tweaked the "Host and Player Options" section. ({{bug|MCPE-28976}})
* Updated the section about taming [[cat]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-43490}})

'''Map-making and [[add-on]]s'''
* New data-driven items:
** [[Turtle]] lightning interactions are now data-driven.
** [[Pufferfish]] puffed states are now data-driven.
** [[Brewing stand]] [[potion]] recipes are now data-driven.
** Changed Breathable, RideTick, and Transformation systems to use ViewedEntityContext.
** Added precompiled header targeting for ScriptAPI.
* Significantly increased the maximum {{cd|spawnRadius}} distance.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* The game no longer appears frozen after starting a world.
* Fixed crash from mismatched components/definitions from legacy actor updating. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to brew certain potions.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on low and mid-end Android devices.
* Fixed crash from missing component definition. 
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after a guest tries to join a game through an invite. 
* The game no longer crashes when a split-screen player picks up log blocks. 
* Fixed a crashing issue that affected certain worlds when approaching spawn. ({{bug|MCPE-46686}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur after changing the file storage location. 
* Running commands from a minecart with command block no longer crashes the game. 
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when trying to double tap on an item in the beacon UI. 
* Fixed a crash that would occur when dispensing bone meal onto a one-high flower. ({{bug|MCPE-50760}})
* Fixed a crash that was sometimes occurring on some Android and iOS devices with lower memory.

'''Performance'''
* Improved world loading times.
* Optimized terrain light calculation.
* Optimized FPS during gameplay on Xbox One.
* Optimized the time taken to load mobs into the world.

'''General'''
* The "We are being attacked!" and "I've got a bad feeling about this" achievements can now be unlocked. ({{bug|MCPE-45060}})
* Powered rails placed using {{cmd|fill}} should now work correctly when powered by redstone.
* Fixed a download loop after purchasing certain content packs. 
* Using {{cmd|setblock}} on a piston base no longer leaves an invisible piston arm. 
* When the player deletes a global resource pack, it now removes itself from the active stack. 
* The info at the top of the global resource pack screen now fits correctly when using various language settings. 
* Cloned active mob spawners now have an animated mob when placed. ({{bug|MCPE-23106}})
* Fixed the "Multiplayer Restricted Skin!" error message that would pop up when trying to join a world before the skin had loaded in. ({{bug|MCPE-48494}})
* Fixed an issue that was causing many small and empty villages to be created when trying to expand an existing village. 
* Fixed an infinite loading screen when opening the skin picker.
* Fixed a missing armor layer for the "Tiny Footprints" Marketplace pack.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fire Aspect swords no longer set Creative players on fire. ({{bug|MCPE-14036}})
* Players can now teleport on top of non-full or transparent blocks when eating a chorus fruit. 
* Endermen holding red sand no longer drop regular sand when killed. ({{bug|MCPE-25926}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented the player from moving while sneaking on top of shulkers or boats. ({{bug|MCPE-44644}})
* Boat paddling animation now matches ''Java Edition'' and resynchronizes when paddling stops.
* Lightning now strikes less frequently. ({{bug|MCPE-38768}})
* The LT controller button can now be used to quickly equip or replace armor.
* Players are now able to use items like fishing rods while aiming at nearby mobs.
* Lightning from channeling trident now affects more than a single mob in a small area.
* The player no longer keeps on rowing when opening the inventory UI during boat rides. ({{bug|MCPE-36522}})
* Arrows now destroy armor stands properly. ({{bug|MCPE-47785}})
* Flowers no longer become invisible in flower pots. ({{bug|MCPE-40806}})
* Sneaking on redstone ore no longer triggers glow. 
* Breaking an extended piston in Creative no longer drops an item. ({{bug|MCPE-37492}})
* Drinking sound for milk and potions now plays correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-38340}})
* Mobs now drop armor and tools correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-48891}})
* Nether wart now has a chance to drop more items when broken with Fortune tools. ({{bug|MCPE-31107}})
* Animal breeding cooldowns no longer reset after reloading the world.
* Explosions other than TNT now deal damage in water.
* Parrots can now be picked in Creative using pick block.
* Dispensers now place boats correctly.
* Anvils now take damage correctly after use. 
* Mobs can now enter into boats and minecarts correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-48596}})
* Buttons are now craftable from the recipe book.
* Fixed the player's swimming state when exiting water.
* Area of effect clouds such as lingering potions now work correctly if the world is set to 'Always Day'. ({{bug|MCPE-39595}})
* Water dispensed from a dispenser no longer breaks end portals and gateways.
* The beacon block can now suffocate players and mobs like other opaque blocks (when being clipped into when using a minecart, for example).
* The player respawn location now favors shallow water rather than deep water.
* Multiple ender dragons no longer spawn in the End if the player dies or moves away. ({{bug|MCPE-37590}})
* Hoppers now pick up items from above correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-31393}})
* The "Renewable Energy" achievement now unlocks correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-39661}})
* Pillagers now spawn around pillager outposts more frequently. ({{bug|MCPE-43396}})
* Player movement speed is no longer slowed down after stepping onto a shulker box from certain blocks. 
* The "Where have you been?" achievement now unlocks correctly on Android.
* Placing and breaking blocks from within a boat now works correctly.
* Mobs no longer drop fully repaired items. ({{bug|MCPE-45953}})
* End gateway portals can no longer generate on the main obsidian platform in the End.
* The locator map marker now points in the correct direction when riding a boat. ({{bug|MCPE-50512}})
* Falling snow layers no longer break blocks in redstone contraptions. ({{bug|MCPE-49773}})
* Players now receive stored XP from furnaces correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-47324}})
* Maps are now drawn more quickly when exploring, meaning the "Map Room" achievement now unlocks more consistently. ({{bug|MCPE-27720}})

'''Mobs'''
* Entity hit and collision boxes no longer exist during mob death animations. ({{bug|MCPE-9999}})
* Wither skeletons are no longer affected by the Wither effect. ({{bug|MCPE-46317}})
* Foxes now sleep and find cover during thunderstorms.
* Mobs and entities are no longer slowed when walking one block above ice.
* Baby zombies are now able to ride zombie pigmen. ({{bug|MCPE-20163}})
* The wither no longer runs away from the player after being spawned. 
* Fixed the held sword position for vex mobs.
* The phantom wing flapping animation is faster now. ({{bug|MCPE-42935}})
* Endermen are correctly affected by invisibility effect when applied. ({{bug|MCPE-44492}})
* Parrots can now fly over fences and walls.
* Drowned on land now attack based on brightness levels rather than the time of day. 
* Mobs standing on slabs are no longer immune to sunlight damage after reloading the world. ({{bug|MCPE-32822}})
* Witches no longer spawn in 1.8 high gaps. ({{bug|MCPE-45935}})
* Cured zombie villagers now keep their trade level.
* Zombies no longer become stuck on doors when pathfinding.
* The parrot dancing animation is the correct speed now. ({{bug|MCPE-48356}})
* Jockeys no longer get stuck trying to move to unreachable mounts.

'''Blocks'''
* Barrier blocks no longer stop grass growth.
* Farmland blocks now prevent grass growing underneath.

'''Items'''
* Leaves collected with silk touch now stack correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-32347}})
* Trapdoor items now have the correct inventory icon textures. ({{bug|MCPE-44214}})
* Six-sided wood block variants can now be smelted or used as furnace fuel. 
* Items dropped from breaking blocks underwater now show bubbles.
* Damaged elytra now have their own texture.
* Fixed an issue that prevented certain items not being suggested in the recipe book correctly. 
* Items cooked on the campfire now stack together correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-47684}})

'''Graphical'''
* The paper doll model now properly reloads animations when the app suspends and resumes. 
* The player model is now visible again while sleeping on a bed.
* Improved the texture for the stonecutter with non-fancy graphics. ({{bug|MCPE-42487}})
* Fixed the shield's blocking animation in third person view.
* Iron bars no longer lose some of their textures when surrounded by other bars. ({{bug|MCPE-47324}})
* Fixed the smooth player sneaking animation. ({{bug|MCPE-49586}})
* The screen now fades to black when sleeping in a bed.
* Leads rendered in the structure block UI no longer stretch really far away.
* Added correct hue to the ender dragon's death animation.

'''User interface'''
* Fixed incorrect tooltip text showing for various potions. 
* Keyboard inputs now work correctly when the game loads out of window focus.
* Fixed HUD positioning after sleeping on VR immersive mode. 
* Fixed the "Open Chat" message for touch screen devices.
* Flight controls no longer show when sleeping in a bed in creative. ({{bug|MCPE-44928}}) 

'''Commands'''
* Pistons with data values 6 and 7 can no longer be placed using slash commands. ({{bug|MCPE-21558}})
* Using the {{cmd|clear @p item}} now clears correctly auxiliary values. 
* Players can no longer use the {{cmd|spawnpoint}} command in the Nether dimension.
* Using the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command now works correctly with barrels. ({{bug|MCPE-48184}})
* The {{cmd|clear}} command now works correctly with damageable items. 
* Running the "{{cmd|clear}}" command message now shows correct amount of items removed. ({{bug|MCPE-34750}})
* Carpet is now removed correctly when using the "{{cmd|clear}}" command.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Fixed the death override event firing twice when leaving a world from the death screen.
* Fixed `{{cd|minecraft:scale}}` component failing to scale certain Actor models.
* Running the "{{cd|tick_world}}" component now removes ticking areas correctly and consistently. 
* Fixed double damage events being sent when mobs are hurt by non-magic.
* Behavior pack animations now run correctly when set.
* The {{cd|timer}} component now works on projectiles.
* "{{cd|minecraft:spell_effects}}" no longer trigger a second time incorrectly.
* Fixed player entity components that were not getting added.
* Added stone slab aliases to allow backward compatibility on Marketplace maps.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.9]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.9]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.9]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.9]]
[[pl:Beta 1.13.0.9]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.9]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.9 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.9]]