{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.220.51 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.220.51.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.22051.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.22051.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.220.51<br>
|parent=1.16.220
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' March 11, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.210
|prev=beta 1.16.220.50
|next=beta 1.16.220.52
|nextparent=1.16.221
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.220.51''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.220]], released on March 11, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360058319571|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.220.51 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 11, 2021}}</ref> which had technical changes and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Technical ===
'''GameTest Framework'''
* Renamed all references of Actor to Entity.
* Renamed BlockPos to BlockLocation.
* Added startSequence in GameTest which allows finer control over advanced test sequences.
* GameTest sequence callbacks no longer take tests a parameter as the initial test object now lives as long as the whole test.

== Fixes ==
'''General'''
* Sounds of ditching/collecting Powder Snow with bucket are now assigned to the correct sound categories ({{bug|MCPE-111739}}).
* Player no longer constantly emits particles when on fire after exiting Powder Snow ({{bug|MCPE-111679}}).
* Powder Snow block is no longer present in Creative Menu ({{bug|MCPE-105407}}).
* Fixed Drowned holding tridents backwards during attack ({{bug|MCPE-118213}}).
* Enabled "Find Friends" button on Xbox.

'''Performance and Stability'''
* Improved input latency on Windows 10 when V-Sync is enabled ({{bug|MCPE-98861}}).

'''Accessibility'''
* Fixed a bug where UI screen reader didn't read out default controller focus and checkbox state on the Online Play is not Rated pop-up.

'''Technical'''
* Updated behavior packs to require explicit module dependencies when using other native modules.
* Identifiers within {{cd|render_controllers}} will now be considered content errors if there is no render controller matching that name.
* Entity json before version 1.16.100 will no longer give a content error for the deprecated field {{cd|minecraft:foot_size}}.
* Modified condition in "animation_controllers.json" to allow mobs to enter "wield_third_person_raise" ({{bug|MCPE-118213}}).
* Fixed an issue where loading into a world would cause continuous molang errors around "unhandled request for unknown variable".</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.220.51]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.220.51]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.220.51]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.220.51]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.220.51 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.220.51]]