{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.6025.0<br />'''Xbox''': 1.20.6025.70<br />'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.60.25
| image = Bedrock 1.20.60.25 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.60.25.png
| build = 20887521
| editorver = 0.5.2
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952006025（armeabi-v7a，33）<br />
962006025（x86，33）<br />
972006025（arm64-v8a，33）<br />
982006025（x86_64，33）<br />
| date = January 10, 2024
| server = 1.20.60.25
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br />[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.60.25.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.60.25.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.60
| prevparent = 1.20.51
| prev = Preview 1.20.60.24
| next = Preview 1.20.60.26
| nextparent = 1.20.62
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.60.25''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.60.25''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the sixth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.60]], released on January 10, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/23082413763341/|title=Minecraft - Beta & ''Preview'' 1.20.60.25|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 10, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
===Blocks===
'''[[Large Chest]] and [[Trapped Chest|Large Trapped Chest]]'''
*Slightly changed their texture.

===World generation===
'''[[Tree]]s'''
*The limitations on which blocks can be replaced by Dark Oak and Acacia trees now also apply to their branches, not just their trunks.

===Technical===
'''API'''
*Changed "Unsupported or out of bounds value.." errors to use {{cd|ArgumentOutOfBoundsError}} Error type 
'''Blocks'''
*Added the ability for data-driven blocks to remove faces in the geometry when abutting a full and opaque block. 
**A new field has been added to the Block Geometry Component, which references a new Culling .json file (found in the resource pack block_culling directory) that sets up culling rules for the tessellated geometry.
'''Dimension API'''
* {{cd|setWeather}} method argument duration now uses {{cd|ArgumentOutOfBoundsError}} Error type.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Update 1.21", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
===Changes===
====Blocks====
'''[[Trial Spawner]]'''
* If the Trial Spawner has less than two seconds remaining to spawn a mob when detecting a player, the spawn delay is set to two seconds.
====Mobs====
'''[[Breeze]]'''
*The Breeze now reflects all projectiles.
*The Breeze now reflects projectiles back toward the shooting entity, with a 40-degree spread.
*The pixels at the bottom of the Breeze's torso rods now match with their surrounding colors.
====Technical====
'''API'''
*{{cd|PropertyOutOfBoundsError}}
**Added a new {{cd|PropertyOutOfBoundsError}} that throws when a property that is bounded is set out of bounds.
*{{cd|ContainerSlot}} APIs now throw an {{cd|InvalidContainerSlotError}} if the container slot is invalid, or if a property is set on an empty slot.
*Property {{cd|typeId}} no longer returns undefined for empty slots, but instead throws an {{cd|InvalidContainerSlotError}}.
*Added function {{cd|hasItem}} - Returns whether the slot contains an item.
*Added function {{cd|getCanPlaceOn}} - Returns an array of block identifiers that the item can be placed on.
*Added function {{cd|getCanDestroy}} - Returns an array of block identifiers that the item can destroy when used.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.60.25 Preview
|;old
|43391|Banners that are mined/broken don't stack with banners that have never been mined/broken
|55878|Wither roses deal damage every 2 seconds instead of half second
|79480|Zoglins can spawn in peaceful mode
|87711|Experience orbs push mobs
|114689|Bees get damaged by sweet berry bushes
|122491|Suspicious stew cannot be consumed with full hunger
|142321|When grass and flowers spawn in a snow biome, they replace the snow
|147656|Wolves doesn't spawn on snow block in the grove biome
|169495|Double chest texture has miscolored pixels
|170540|Experience (XP) orbs scattering more than before
|177409|Need a Mint achievement received through crafting
|;previous
|177195|{{cmd|/execute if blocks}} succeeds when given unloaded coordinates
|177696|Health bar of rideable animals disappear
|otherissuescount=5}}
'''Others'''
* Containers being cloned no longer keep their container screens open or cause crashes.
* Fixed a bug that could cause infinite loading while joining a Realm
* Hud command now works as expected – the /hud command allows creators to show/hide each element individually as well as show/hide all. Hiding one element no longer hides 'all' elements.
*Fixed an issue causing caves to appear illuminated by the sun (aka “Light Leaking”) in the Deferred Technical Preview
*Volumetric fog is no longer affected by sunlight in enclosed spaces in the Deferred Technical Preview</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.60 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.60.25]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.60.25]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.60.25]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.60.25]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.60.25 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.60.25]]