{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.12.0.11.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.12.11.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.12.11.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.12.0.11<br>
|parent=1.12.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>June 11, 2019
|prevparent=1.11.4
|prev=beta 1.12.0.10
|next=beta 1.12.0.12
|nextparent=1.12.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.12.0.11''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]], released on June 11, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360029378831-Minecraft-Beta-1-12-0-11-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.12.0.11 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=June 11, 2019}}</ref> which fixes some bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Performance'''
* Improved FPS performance related to various particles:
** Enderman's teleporting particles no longer cause consistent FPS drop, especially during boss fights.
** Improved performance related to bubble columns, improving FPS during underwater exploration.

'''General'''
* Fixed several more issues where the player's skin would revert to a default one if the network connection changed.
* Skins equipped from the "Recently used" section are now correctly applied when selected.
* Minecoin offers now display the correct amount of coins given in offer.

'''Gameplay'''
* Floating blocks no longer turn grass to dirt at night. ({{bug|MCPE-46035}}, {{bug|MCPE-45751}}, {{bug|MCPE-45698}})

'''Mobs'''
* New zombie villagers now have the correct name in death messages instead of a placeholder name. ({{bug|MCPE-45932}})

'''Commands'''
* Command selectors are back to resolving in less than 0.5ms as opposed to 4+ms.
* {{code|villager_v2}} works in selectors again, and targets both old villagers and new villagers.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.11]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.11]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.12.0.11]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.12.0.11]]
[[ru:Beta 1.12.0.11 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.12.0.11]]