{{Infobox version
| image =  Bedrock 1.20.10.20 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.10.20.png
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| editorver = 0.3.6
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.1020.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.10.20<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.1020.70<br>
| server = 1.20.10.20
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952001020（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962001020（x86，33）<br>
972001020（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982001020（x86_64，33）<br>
| build = 15714047
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - May 25, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.10.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.10.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.10
| prevparent = 1.20.1
| prev = 
| next = Preview 1.20.10.21
| nextparent = 1.20.12
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.10.20''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.10.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.10]], released on May 25, 2023<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/16116960508813|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.20.10.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 25, 2023}}</ref>, which adds the [[crawling|crawl]] ability behind the [[experimental gameplay]], brings more parity from {{JE}}, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added the slider "GUI Scale Modifier" to the accessibility section.
* Added "Extra Largue GUI Scaling" accessibility and video option, to make the UI "bigger" (only works on some devices).

=== Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Released the <code>minecraft:cooldown</code> item component out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.10 and higher.
* Released the <code>minecraft:repairable</code> item component out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.10 and higher.

'''[[Recipe]]'''
* Added <code>unlock</code> field to the recipe JSON format.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]]'''
* Recipe now use [[planks]] instead of [[stick]]s to match {{JE}}.

'''[[Concrete]]'''
* The ID's of <code>concrete</code> have now been split up into their own ID's.

'''[[Decorated Pot]]s'''
* If they crafted with at least one [[pottery sherd]] now have a hover tooltip displaying the [[pottery sherd]] and [[brick]] ingredients.

'''[[Note Block]]s'''
* Now produces the "harp" sound instead of "snare" using [[soul soil]].

'''[[Packed Mud]]'''
* Can no longer mine faster with a [[shovel]].

'''[[Sculk Sensor]]'''
* Can now detect the following events:
** Placing, rotating, or removing an item in an [[item frame]] or a [[glow item frame]].
** Charging a [[respawn anchor]].
** Scraping or applying wax to blocks of the copper block set.
** Switching a [[daylight detector]] to an inverted daylight detector or vice-versa.
** Adding food to a [[campfire]].
** Adding or removing a [[music disc]] to a [[jukebox]].
** [[Mud]] turning into [[clay]].
** Harvesting [[sweet berries]].
** Placing an [[eye of ender]] in an [[end portal frame]].
** [[Bees]] entering or exiting a [[beehive]] or a [[bee nest]].
** Interacting with [[composter]].
** Attaching or detaching a [[lead]] from a [[fence]].
** Attaching or detaching a [[lead]] from a mob.
** Dying a [[sheep]].
** Picking [[glow berries]].
** [[Farmland]] turning into [[dirt]].
** Using a [[spawn egg]] on a [[monster spawner]].
** [[Silverfish]] merging with blocks.
** Using a [[hoe]] on [[rooted dirt]].
** Using a [[shovel]] to create [[dirt path]]s.
** Placing a [[door]].
** Planting seeds in [[farmland]].

'''[[Shulker Box]]'''
* The ID's of <code>shulker_box</code> have now been split up into their own ID's.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Block states]]'''
* Now "equals" (<code>=</code>) are used instead of "colons" (<code>:</code>) to match {{JE}}.
** Example: <code>oak_log["pillar_axis"''':'''"x"]</code> -> <code>oak_log["pillar_axis"'''='''"x"]</code>

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Sound]]'''
* Camera position is now used for audio listening and ambient sounds.
** Previously the player position and rotation were sometimes used for audio listening.

'''[[Rendering engine]]'''
* Rendering of snow or rain is now based on camera position instead of player position.

=== General ===
'''[[Experiments]]'''
* Renamed the "Short Sneaking" experimental toggle to "Short Sneaking and Crawling".
** Now also contains the ability to [[crawling|crawl]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Boat]]s'''
* Recipe no longer needs a [[shovel]] to match {{JE}}.
** Except [[boat|bamboo raft]].

'''[[Cobweb]]s'''
* Now can't craft into [[string]]s to match {{JE}}.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Horse]], [[Mule]], and [[Donkey]]'''
* Can now be tempted using a [[golden apple]], [[golden carrot]], or [[enchanted golden apple]].

'''[[Llama]]'''
* Can now be tempted using a [[hay bale]].

'''[[Magma Cube]]'''
* Can now be affected from [[Jump Boost]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Chiseled Deepslate]] and [[Polished Basalt]]'''
* Can no longer be replaced by [[sculk]].

'''[[Polished Deepslate]]'''
* Can now be replaced by [[sculk]].

=== Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Added deprecation error message for the <code>part_visibility</code> component.
* Fixed an issue where adding a <code>minecraft:peek</code> component to a custom entity would cause the game to crash.
* Updated the <code>minecraft:geometry</code> block component to allow bone visibility to be defined with a [[molang]] expression.
* Added a content error when <code>minecraft:balloonable</code> is used on <code>minecraft:player</code> to prevent issues as this component is not supported in this way.
* Invalid JSON objects within the entity component <code>minecraft:behavior.nearest_attackable_target</code> will no longer crash the game.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Short Sneaking and Crawling", "Experimental Cameras", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Crawling]]'''
* Added the ability to [[crawling|crawl]].
** Created new player crawling animation.
** Players will now begin crawling when in a 1 block gap, similar to sneaking.
** Crawling is the same speed as sneaking.
** Players will automatically stand up or begin [[sneaking]] if they leave the 1 block gap.

=== Changes ===
==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|camera}}'''
* Changed camera command fade color to take integer values from <code>0</code> to <code>255</code> rather than <code>0.0</code> to <code>1.0</code> fractional values.
* Camera fade command now enforces fade duration limits; fade in, hold, and fade out must be between <code>0</code> and <code>10</code> seconds.
* Ensuring camera pitch can only be between <code>-90</code> and <code>90</code> degrees.
* Added <code>example:example_player_listener</code> camera preset.

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Dynamic properties can now optionally have default values.
* Increased dynamic property registration limits:
** Actors: <code>~1KB</code> -> <code>128KB</code>
** World: <code>~10KB</code> -> <code>1MB</code>
* <code>ScreenDisplay</code>
** Removed <code>clearTitle()-</code> Use <code>setTitle</code> with an empty string to clear the title.
** Updated <code>fadeInSeconds</code>, <code>staySeconds</code>, <code>fadeOutSeconds</code> to <code>fadeInDuration</code>, <code>stayDuration</code>, <code>fadeOutDuration</code> on <code>TitleDisplayOptions</code> (seconds to ticks).
** Updated <code>setTitle</code> to reset the times per each new title.
** Added <code>RawMessage</code> support for <code>setTitle</code>, <code>updateSubtitle</code>, and <code>setActionBar</code>.
* ''Entity''
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isGliding-</code> Returns whether the player is gliding with elytra.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isJumping-</code> Returns whether the player is using the jump action.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>sFlying-</code> Returns whether the player is flying (e.g. creative or spectator mode).
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isSprinting-</code> Returns whether the entity is sprinting.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isSwimming-</code> Returns whether the entity is swimming.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isClimbing-</code> Returns whether the entity is climbing (e.g. player on a ladder or spider on a wall).
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isOnGround-</code> Returns whether the entity is on the ground.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isInWater-</code> Returns whether the entity is in water.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isFalling-</code> Returns whether the entity is falling.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>fallDistance-</code> Returns the current fall distance (used for calculating fall damage).
** Added function <code>fly-</code> Makes the player fly (e.g. creative or spectator mode).
** Added function <code>stopFlying-</code> Makes the player stop flying (e.g. creative or spectator mode).
** Added function <code>glide-</code> Makes the player glide with elytra.
** Added function <code>stopGliding-</code> Makes the player stop gliding with elytra.
** Added function <code>swim-</code> Makes the player swim.
** Added function <code>stopSwimming-</code> Makes the player stop swimming.
* ''Entity'' effects
** Updated function <code>addEffect(effectType: EffectType | string, duration: number, options?: EntityEffectOptions): void</code> to return void and to throw if the effect does not exist or the parameters are out of bounds.
** Updated function <code>getEffect(effectType: EffectType | string): Effect | undefined</code> to throw if the effect does not exist.
** Updated function <code>removeEffect(effectType: EffectType | string): boolean</code> to throw if the effect does not exist.
* <code>BlockEvents</code>
** Added events <code>PressurePlatePushEvent</code>, <code>PressurePlatePopEvent</code>, <code>TargetBlockHitEvent</code>, and <code>TripWireTripEvent</code>.
* <code>ContainerSlot</code>
** Removed function <code>clone-</code>.
* <code>EntityHealableComponent</code>
** Removed <code>filters: FilterGroupproperty</code>.
* <code>EntityAttributeComponent</code>
** Added <code>effectiveMin: number</code> Returns the minimum possible value for the component.
** Added <code>effectiveMax: number</code> Return the maximum possible value for the component.
** Renamed <code>value</code> property to <code>defaultValue</code>.
** Renamed <code>current</code> property to <code>currentValue</code>.
** Renamed <code>setCurrent</code> method to <code>setCurrentValue</code>.
* Added <code>EntityHealthChangedAfterEvent</code> It is triggered when any health change happens for an entity.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* Items with the <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> component will now place blocks with correct orientation.
* Items in format version 1.20.10 and above with the <code>minecraft:throwable</code> component will trigger "item use" events when thrown.
* Custom items with <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> will no longer place certain blocks in the wrong location.
* Changed <code>minecraft:shooter</code> to only consume ammo when charging the item if <code>charge_on_draw</code> is set <code>true</code>.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.10.20 Preview|otherissuescount=10
|;old
|46795|Cannot move items if "Quick Move" isn't canceled.
|54294|Jump boost has no effect on magma cubes.
|122663|Player model isn't centered when swimming.
|142918|Holding two shields in RTX only shows you one.
|152002|<code>hasitem</code> doesn't check items in the cursor, unlike {{cmd|clear}}.
|155371|Sculk sensor doesn't detect composter changes.
|155372|Placing an eye of ender doesn't produce a vibration.
|156199|Sculk sensors don't detect most game events post-Java 1.19 Pre-release 1.
|156575|Xbox: On screen keyboard won't move and is in front of the sign and chat.
|157409|Sculk sensors do not detect respawn anchors charging.
|160189|Item drop location for inventory contents of storage entities is offset to the southeast.
|160238|Sculk patches don't replace polished deepslate upon world gen inside ancient city.
|161207|Packed mud can be mined faster with a shovel.
|162785|Blocks are placed upwards when continuing to build.
|163670|Zombie villagers don't drop armor or held items when converting to a regular villager.
|164064|Camel's dash sound continues playing.
|166411|Blocks push the player when automatically initiated to sneaking.
|166741|Sculk sensors do not detect item frame & glow item frame interactions.
|168054|Block state autocomplete does not work unless you put a space between block name and first bracket.
|168056|Block state values don't autocomplete unless you type a space after the colon.
|168129|Invalid objects in entitiy component <code>minecraft:behavior.nearest_attackable</code> crash the game.
|168368|{{cmd|inputpermission}} doesn't send you successful messages after executing it.
|169974|{{cmd|execute positioned}} gets syntax error after 1.19.80 update.
|170610|Forced crouch interacts with entities as if the sneak button was being held.
|170613|Player is able to crouch while riding a camel.
|;From the 1.20.0 development versions
|169758|Villagers cannot pickup, plant or harvest torchflower seeds and pitcher pods.
|170427|When water is put in the cauldron, the water looks like lava.
}}
'''Others'''
* Players will now always spawn projectiles from the camera position when sneaking, swimming, or gliding.
* Loyalty tridents will always return to the player's camera.
* Players will now spawn particle effects when eating in the correct position if they are sneaking, swimming, or gliding.
* Players will no longer suffocate when short sneaking in certain scenarios.
* Players without permission to open/close containers can no longer interact with chiseled bookshelves.
* Switch: Fixed issues with highlighted blocks and mob shadows appearing through the pumpkin head overlay.
* Shields no longer flicker when held in both hands on RTX.
* Fixed sleep and camera fade effect not covering the screen until after first-person rendering happens.
* Fixed black pixels being generated on maps when "Client-Side Chunk Generation" is enabled.
* Command positions will now use the current position/rotation when running mcfunctions via {{cd|execute}}.
</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.10 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.10.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.10.20]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.10.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.10.20]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.10.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.10.20]]