{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.2.5.15.png
|edition=Bedrock Edition
|type=Beta
|parent=1.2.5
|date=October 31, 2017
|prevparentlink=Pocket Edition 1.2
|prevparent=1.2.3
|prev=beta 1.2.5.12
|nextparent=1.2.6
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.2.5.15''' (also known as 1.2.5 build 3) is the third and final build released for [[Bedrock Edition 1.2.5|1.2.5]] that added new features and fixed bugs.<ref>
{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004165411|title=Minecraft Xbox One/Win 10/Android Beta - 1.2.5 Build 3}}</ref>

== Changes ==
* The main menu background now has a raised camera angle and scales properly based on the device's aspect ratio

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that occurred when entering a world while wearing armor.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when sending a message containing "%0".
* Fixed a crash that occurred when attempting to teleport millions of blocks away.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when mobs were killed by something that wasn't an entity.
* Fixed several issues with missing chunks and lost progress during world conversion (Xbox One only).
* Worlds deleted or changed on other consoles will now sync with the console they were created on (Xbox One only).
* Fixed an issue where some owners of Minecraft on Android devices would be prompted to acquire a license.
* Improved navigation when using a controller on several menu screens.
* Increased performance when jumping into water when mobs are around.
* Template world data is no longer lost when loading a cloud save on a different console (Xbox One only).
* Fixed changes made in converted worlds not saving after a player walks into another dimension (Xbox One only).
* Redstone Repeaters facing into Redstone Dust now properly redirect the Dust.
* Observers facing each other now output a steady, repeating Redstone signal.
* Removed the hard-coded chat filter from featured servers.
* Coordinates are no longer censored.
* Fixed an exploit surrounding the use of encrypted skin packs.
* Names of players outside of render distance will now appear in auto-complete when typing commands.
* The '/clear' command will now clear items from armor slots by item name.
* Fixed the XP Cost text on the anvil screen not being readable.
* The 'minecraft:transformation' component now has a 'keep_owner' property to allow for an entity to keep its original owner.
* Fixed placeholder images for items on the Storage screen.
* Multiple commands can now be entered on a single meta property with Mixer interaction.
* Only 11 characters can now be typed into the Join Realm code field.
* Mobs can now be rotated using the 'xRot' and 'yRot' arguments when using teleport commands.
* Signs will now close when the virtual keyboard is closed.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.5.15]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.5.15]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.2.5.15]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.5.15]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.2.5.15]]
[[ru:Beta 1.2.5.15 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.2.5.15]]