{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.9.0.3.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' December 5, 2018
|parent=1.9.0
|prevparent=1.8.1
|prev=beta 1.9.0.2
|next=beta 1.9.0.5
|nextparent=1.10.0
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.9.0.3''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]], released on December 5, 2018, the last of the year,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360020336512-Minecraft-Beta-1-9-0-3-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.9.0.3 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=December 5, 2018}}</ref> which adds the Minecraft Script Engine. This is the final beta released in 2018.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''Minecraft Script Engine'''
* Uses {{w|JavaScript}}.
* Scripts can be written and bundled with [[behavior pack]]s to listen and respond to game events, get and modify data in components that entities have, and affect different parts of the game.
* Only available on Windows 10, and through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Crossbow]]'''
* Now appears bigger in [[pillager]]'s hand.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that could occur during gameplay.
* Tamed llamas no longer become bioluminescent creatures when their inventory is opened.
* Fixed items in hand sometimes appearing completely white.
* Fixed a rare instance of players being teleported into a boat while traveling near water.
* Fixed the logo not appearing on the loading screen after suspending and resuming the game.
* Players can no longer respawn in a semi-dead state if killed while in a bed. ({{bug|MCPE-39410}})
* Players no longer occasionally spawn high in the air when loading a world. ({{bug|MCPE-38374}})
* Beacon beams once again use the proper texture. ({{bug|MCPE-38148}})
* Blocks in the inventory once again follow the textures set in {{code|blocks.json}}.
* Optimizations to chunk synchronization between client and server.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.3]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.3]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.9.0.3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.9.0.3]]
[[ru:Beta 1.9.0.3 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.9.0.3]]