{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.50.21 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.50.21.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - October 19, 2022
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.5021.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.5021.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.50.21
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.50.21.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.50.21.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.50
| prevparent = 1.19.41
| prev = Preview 1.19.50.20
| next = Preview 1.19.50.22
| nextparent = 1.19.51
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.50.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.50.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.50]], released on October 19, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/9993986449037|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.50.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 19, 2022}}</ref> which adds the first 1.20 features to the game, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]]'''
* Added the "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Button]]s'''
* Added unique button click sound for wooden buttons to match ''Java Edition''.
'''[[Door]]s, [[fence gate]]s and [[trapdoor]]s'''
*Now use the same opening and closing sound effects as ''Java Edition''.
'''[[Pressure Plate]]s'''
*Updated to have different pitches based on their behavior to match ''Java Edition''.

===Mobs===
'''[[Villager]]'''
*While playing tag, baby villagers will now run at a quicker speed that matches ''Java Edition''.

===Gameplay===
'''[[Sound]]'''
*Various wood types now have unique sounds when placed, broken, or walked on.
**There are three sets of unique sounds: Overworld wood types, Nether wood types, and bamboo.

===General===
'''[[Controls|Touch Controls]]'''
*Removed the action delay from Attack and Interact buttons.
*When the joystick is unlocked, the draggable range has been changed to be the same as the when the joystick is locked.  
**In both modes, if auto-sprinting is enabled, it will start when the joystick is dragged slightly above the background. The auto-sprint will disengage if the joystick control is subsequently moved back into the joystick background area.
*A tap gesture will now fire a charged crossbow. Previously it was necessary to hold the gesture for 400 milliseconds before the bolt would fire.

===Technical===
'''Actor Properties'''
*Actor Properties are no longer experimental (this includes Molang queries and property filters, but not Permutations).
'''AI Goals'''
*Exposed new data parameters for the <code>minecraft:offer_flower</code> AI behavior to specify such things as the time that the mob offers the flower for, the chance that the goal will start, and the dimensions of the AABB used to search for a mob to offer a flower to.
*The <code>minecraft:offer_flower</code> AI behavior can now be used by any mob, not just the iron golem.
*The <code>minecraft:offer_flower</code> AI behavior will now search through all mobs in the specified range rather than just the closest one, meaning that this goal has the potential to be used more consistently than before.
*Exposed new data parameters for the <code>minecraft:take_flower</code> AI behavior to specify such things as the conditions to be met to start the goal, the min and max wait times before taking the flower, and the dimensions of the AABB used to search for a mob to take a flower from.
*The <code>minecraft:take_flower</code> AI behavior can now be used by any mob, not just baby Villagers.

==Experimental==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features", "Beta APIs", and "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.

===Additions===
====Blocks====
'''[[Bamboo Mosaic]]s'''
*A plank variant exclusive to the bamboo wood set.
**Can be crafted with 2 bamboo slabs arranged in a vertical strip.
**The bamboo mosaic has its own [[stair]] and [[slab]] variant.
'''[[Button]]s, [[door]]s, [[fence]]s, [[fence gate]]s, [[planks]], [[pressure plate]]s, [[sign]]s, [[slab]]s, [[stairs]], and [[trapdoor]]s'''
*Added their [[bamboo]] variants.
*Bamboo planks can be crafted by arranging 4 bamboo in a 2&times;2 format in the crafting grid.
'''[[Chiseled Bookshelves]]'''
*Can be crafted with 6 planks and 3 wooden slabs.
*Can store up to 6 books, books and quills, written books, and enchanted books.
*Can interact with redstone comparators.
'''[[Hanging Sign]]s'''
*A more expensive version of normal signs, which can be crafted with 2 chains and 6 stripped logs, resulting 6 of them.
*Can be hung up in the following ways:
**Underneath a block that can provide support in the center.
***When the hanging sign is placed underneath a full block, the chains will be on parallel sides of the sign.
***When the hanging sign is placed underneath a non-full block, such as a fence, or when placed while sneaking, the chains will take on an upside-down v-shape.
**Attached to the solid side of a block.
**Attached to the side or underneath another hanging sign.
*Cannot be placed directly on the ground without support from the side or above.
**However, hanging signs that have a horizontal bar will not pop when the supporting block is removed.

====Mobs==== 
'''[[Camel]]s'''
*Can be equipped with a [[saddle]] and ridden by two players.
*Spawn naturally in desert villages.
*Can walk over fences.
*Will randomly sit down.
**While sitting, it is difficult to convince them to move.
*Can either walk slowly or sprint quickly.
*Can also dash forward but will lose stamina for a while.

====Non-mob entities==== 
'''[[Boat]]s and [[boat with chest]]s'''
*Added bamboo raft and bamboo raft with chest.
**Can be crafted with bamboo planks instead.
**They function the same as ordinary boats, but have a unique look to them.

===Changes===
====Technical==== 
'''Commands'''
*As a preview of upcoming potential changes to how commands run, new experimental functionality within the "Upcoming Creator Features" experiment causes all command execution to run at the end of the current tick.
'''General'''
*Removed the functionality of the <code>minecraft:breathability</code> component. Component will have no effect on the custom defined block.
'''API'''
*Initial APIs are releasing out of beta and will be usable without an experimental flag.
*The first module to release is ''@minecraft/server'' as version 1.0.0. The APIs included with this are listed below.
**Non-beta APIs like those included in the ''@minecraft/server'' 1.0.0 module do not require the Beta APIs experiment to be turned on, and will be more stable over time.
*''@minecraft/server'' will continue to develop in Beta and those Beta APIs have been incremented in version to 1.1.0-beta; if you wish to continue to use Beta. ''@minecraft/server'' APIs, manifest.json references will need to be updated to 1.1.0-beta.
*APIs included in the ''@minecraft/server'' version 1.0.0 release:
**System type (Exposed via systemglobal instance)
***<code>run()</code> - runs a function on the next tick (can be used to maintain a game loop tick over tick).
**World type (exposed via worldglobal instance)
***<code>getDimension()</code>.
***<code>getAllPlayers()</code>.
**MinecraftDimensionTypes type
***<code>nether</code>.
***<code>overworld</code>.
***<code>theEnd</code>.
**Dimension type
***<code>id</code>.
***<code>runCommandAsync()</code>.
**CommandResult type
***<code>commandResult</code>.
**Entity type
***<code>id</code>.
***<code>typeId</code>.
***<code>dimension</code>.
***<code>runCommandAsync()</code>.
**Player type
***<code>name</code>.

==Fixes==
'''Spectator Mode'''
*Allays no longer throw items to players in spectator mode. ({{bug|MCPE-162873}})
'''User Interface'''
*You can now bind the copy coordinate keys with full keyboard gameplay turned on. ({{bug|MCPE-163082}})
'''World and Dimensions'''
*Fixed a bug that could cause players to get stuck on the "Building Terrain" screen when changing dimensions. ({{bug|MCPE-158215}})
'''Gameplay'''
*Temporarily reverted the fix for effects being inherited by bred mobs, while a related issue is addressed first. ({{bug|MCPE-81890}})
'''Add-Ons and Script Engine'''
*Fixed an issue where changing the subpack of Resource Packs that have subpacks, would not apply changes until the game was restarted. ({{bug|MCPE-162002}})
'''Stability and Performance'''
*Fixed a crash that would occur if Education Edition items were rendered without the Education Edition toggle turned on. ({{bug|MCPE-161587}})
'''Touch Controls'''
*Fixed an issue where players couldn't drag/drop in the anvil screen.</onlyinclude>

==Trivia==
* Windows and Linux builds of the Bedrock Dedicated Server corresponding to beta 1.19.50.21 were uploaded on October 25th, 2022. Though they were never officially released, they can be found on minecraft.azureedge.net.

==References==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.50.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.50.21]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.50.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.50.21]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.50.21]]