{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=<!--Bedrock 1.15.0.55.png-->
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.15.55.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.15.55.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.15.0.55<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' March 4, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.15.0.54
|next=beta 1.15.0.56
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.15.0.55''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.15.0 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16.0]]<ref>{{tweet|Chupacaubrey|1239595265264238593}}</ref>}} released on March 4, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360040495171|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.15.0.55 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 4, 2020}}</ref> which improves villagers and fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to enchant fishing rods.

'''General'''
* Marketplace ratings now appear correctly when scrolling. ({{bug|MCPE-60287}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Blocks will now lose their waterlogged state when pushed by a piston.
* Kelp will now keep growing after being partially broken by a piston, and the piece below will have a maximum random age of 24. ({{bug|MCPE-57330}})
* Blue wither skulls will once again break obsidian. ({{bug|MCPE-63223}})
* Ender dragon fireball attacks no longer cause excessive damage. ({{bug|MCPE-40344}})
* Hopper minecarts will now drop hoppers and minecarts when broken with a ranged weapon. ({{bug|MCPE-55859}})
* Multiple honey blocks can be crafted in the 2x2 crafting grid. ({{bug|MCPE-63081}})
* Crafting multiple honey blocks returns the correct amount of items to the player. ({{bug|MCPE-63461}}, {{bug|MCPE-58579}})

'''Mobs'''
* Cured zombie villagers can now offer discounted trades. ({{bug|MCPE-47040}})
* Hostile mobs will now correctly seek out and jump on turtle eggs. ({{bug|MCPE-36244}})
* Cured zombie villagers no longer inherit XP unexpectedly, which would prevent them from acquiring a new profession. ({{bug|MCPE-48712}})
* Villagers will no longer become preoccupied with sharing carrots. ({{bug|MCPE-32627}})
* Vindicators that spawn in woodland mansions will now use the spawned event and become hostile before being attacked. ({{bug|MCPE-43208}})
* Villagers now have a chance to offer trident enchantment books as trades. ({{bug|MCPE-35406}})
* Creepers in boats now deal damage to players nearby.
* Wolves will once again heal when fed meat. ({{bug|MCPE-63205}})</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
<references group="fn"/>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.55]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.55]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.15.0.55]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.55]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.15.0.55]]
[[ru:Beta 1.15.0.55 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.15.0.55]]