{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.7020.0<br>'''Xbox''': 1.20.7020.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.70.20
| image = Bedrock 1.20.70.20 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.70.20.png
| build = 21280743
| editorver = 0.5.3
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952007020（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962007020（x86，33）<br>
972007020（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982007020（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = January 24, 2024
| server = 1.20.70.20
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.70.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.70.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.70
| prevparent = 1.20.62
| prev = 
| next = Preview 1.20.70.21
| nextparent = 1.20.71
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.70.20''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.70.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.70]], released on January 24, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/23458154786829|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.20.70.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 24, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Tutorial hints]]'''
* Added tutorial hints.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Grass Block]]'''
* The ID has been changed from <code>grass</code> to <code>grass_block</code>.

'''[[Leaves]]'''
* The different leaf type [[block states]] for the <code>leaves</code> and <code>leaves2</code> IDs have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="4" | {{BlockSprite|leaves}} <code>leaves</code>
| {{BlockSprite|oak-leaves}} <code>oak_leaves</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|spruce-leaves}} <code>spruce_leaves</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|birch-leaves}} <code>birch_leaves</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|jungle-leaves}} <code>jungle_leaves</code>
|-
| rowspan="2" | {{BlockSprite|leaves}} <code>leaves2</code>
| {{BlockSprite|acacia-leaves}} <code>acacia_leaves</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dark-oak-leaves}} <code>dark_oak_leaves</code>
|}

'''[[Wooden Slab]]'''
* The different wood type [[block states]] for the <code>wooden_slab</code> and <code>double_wooden_slab</code> IDs have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="6" | {{BlockSprite|wooden-slabs}} <code>wooden_slab</code>
| {{BlockSprite|oak-slab}} <code>oak_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|spruce-slab}} <code>spruce_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|birch-slab}} <code>birch_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|jungle-slab}} <code>jungle_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|acacia-slab}} <code>acacia_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dark-oak-slab}} <code>dark_oak_slab</code>
|-
| rowspan="6" | {{BlockSprite|double-wooden-slabs}} <code>double_wooden_slab</code>
| {{BlockSprite|double-oak-slab}} <code>oak_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|double-spruce-slab}} <code>spruce_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|double-birch-slab}} <code>birch_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|double-jungle-slab}} <code>jungle_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|double-acacia-slab}} <code>acacia_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|double-dark-oak-slab}} <code>dark_oak_double_slab</code>
|}

=== General ===
'''[[Realms]]'''
* Updated the Realms Plus landing page to make it more clear how Realms subscriptions work.
* The text-to-speech narrator will now read the filter dropdown menu in the members tab when collapsed.
* The text-to-speech narrator will now read the sort dropdown menu in the members tab when collapsed.
* Added full narration for timestamps in stories and comments.
* Removed double narration from the Opt Out button in the Realms settings menu.

'''[[Controls|Touch Controls]]'''
* The button's textures of the "D-Pad & tap to interact" touch control mode have been updated.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Wolf]]'''
* Wolves can now withstand the same amount of damage as {{in|JE}}.
** Rather than halving all damage dealt to tamed wolves by entities other than [[player]]s or [[arrow]]s.
* Increased the maximum health of tamed wolves from {{hp|20}} to {{hp|40}}. Pre-existing tamed wolves need to be fed to reach the new maximum health.
** To ensure the healing rate remains consistent, the health restored by feeding wolves has been doubled.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Added {{cd|ScriptGameRules}} and {{cd|gameRules}} for accessing & modifying [[game rule]]s.
* Moved {{cd|ItemDurabilityComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|getAllStates}} API from <code>beta</code> to <code>stable</code>.
* <code>@minecraft/server.WeatherChangeAfterEvent</code>
** Moved {{cd|WeatherChangeAfterEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|stable}}.
* Moved {{cd|setOnFire}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|extinguishFire}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|EntityOnFireComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|getEquipmentSlot}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|BlockStateType}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|BlockStates}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|BlockSignComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|DyeColor}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|SignSide}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|ContainerSlot}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|InvalidContainerSlotError}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|getSlot}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|EffectTypes}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|RawText}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|createExplosion}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|ExplosionOptions}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|DimensionType}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.
* Moved {{cd|DimensionTypes}} from {{cd|beta}} to <code>1.9.0</code>.

'''[[JSON]]'''
: Entities
* The <code>entity_sensor</code> component’s <code>range</code> field now supports two values, the first one for horizontal range and the second one for vertical range.
* This requires a <code>format_version</code> of <code>1.20.70</code> or higher.
: Spawn rules
* <code>minecraft:spawns_on_block_filter</code> now supports block descriptors.
* <code>minecraft:spawns_on_block_prevented_filter</code> now supports block descriptors.
* <code>minecraft:spawns_above_block_filter</code> now supports block descriptors.

'''[[Molang]]'''
* Added new Molang API’s that give read access to rider body and head rotations:
** <code>rider_body_x_rotation(riderIndex) => float</code>
** <code>rider_body_y_rotation(riderIndex) => float</code>
** <code>rider_head_x_rotation(riderIndex) => float</code>
** <code>rider_head_y_rotation(riderIndex,clampRotation?) => float</code>
** <code>ride_body_x_rotation => float</code>
** <code>ride_body_y_rotation => float</code>
** <code>ride_head_x_rotation => float</code>
** <code>ride_head_y_rotation(clampRotation?) => float</code>

'''[[NBT]] Parsing'''
* Loading of NBT data is now more restrictive. Negative-length arrays, invalid tag ids, and not enough bytes in a payload are now all treated as errors which will prevent a tag loading where before those conditions were sometimes ignored.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Armadillo and Wolf Armor", "Update 1.21", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
=== Changes ===
==== Items ====
'''[[Armadillo Scute]]'''
* The texture has been changed.

'''[[Armadillo Spawn Egg]]'''
* The texture has been changed.

'''[[Wolf Armor]]'''
* The texture has been changed.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Armadillo]]'''
* The texture has been updated.
* Now have a reduced vertical range when scanning for potential threats.
* Can now also be found in [[badlands]] biome variations.
* Now scare away [[spider]]s and [[cave spider]]s, but only when they are not rolled up.
* Now float better and create more splash particles when in water.
* Baby armadillos now catch up to their parents a bit faster.
* The armadillo’s roll-up behavior has been enhanced to bolster its defensive capabilities:
** Armadillos are now more resistant to damage when rolled up.
** Armadillos now roll up when attacked by a player or a mob, instead of panicking.
** Armadillos now keep track of the last player who hit them, regarding them as a threat for 20 seconds.

'''[[Cave Spider]]s & [[Spider]]s'''
* Are now scared of [[armadillo]]s not in a rolled up state.

'''[[Wolf]]'''
* The collars of tamed wolves have been increased in size, making them visible not only from the front but also from other angles.
** The color of the collars is slightly different from {{el|je}}.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-178351}}</ref>

==== Non-mob entities ====
'''[[Wind Charge Projectile]]'''
* Updated the model, texture, and animation to give it a more dynamic look and feel.

==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* <code>ItemComponent</code>
** Added {{cd|isCooldownCategory(cooldownCategory: string) : boolean}} to {{cd|ItemCooldownComponent}}.
** Added {{cd|getCooldownTimeRemaining(player: Player) : number}} to {{cd|ItemCooldownComponent}}.
** Added {{cd|MinecraftCooldownCategoryTypes}} to {{cd|@minecraft/vanilla-data}}.
*** Added {{cd|getHiddenHudElements(): HudElements[]}}.
*** Added {{cd|isForcedHidden(hudElement: HudElements): Boolean}}.
*** Added {{cd|resetHudElements(): void}}.
*** Added {{cd|setHudVisibility(visible: HudVisibility, hudElements?: HudElements[]): void}}.
*** Added {{cd|hideAllExcept(hudElements?: HudElements[])}}.
* Added interface {{cd|BlockFilter}}. Used to include / exclude blocks by tag, type and permutation.
* <code>BlockRaycastOptions</code>
** Added optional member {{cd|BlockFilter}}.
** Updated {{cd|getBlockFromRay(location: Vector3, direction: Vector3, options?: BlockRaycastOptions): BlockRaycastHit {{!}} undefined}} to throw if the <code>BlockFilter</code> include / exclude types cannot be resolved inside {{cd|BlockRaycastOptions}}.
** Added a {{cd|disableWatchdog}} method that disable and enable the scripting watchdog in scripts.
* Added function {{cd|playSound(soundId: string, location: Vector3, soundOptions?: WorldSoundOptions): void}} - Plays a sound at a specified location for all players in the dimension.
* {{cd|clearJob(jobId: number)}} - Will now clear iterations in the current tick as well as any scheduled for future ticks. Previously would only clear iterations in future ticks.

'''[[Molang]]'''
* Removed the following experimental Molang queries:
** <code>biome_has_any_tag</code>
** <code>biome_has_all_tags</code>
** <code>self</code>
** <code>target</code>
** <code>client_input_type</code>
** <code>get_nearby_entities</code>
** <code>get_nearby_entities_except_self</code>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.70.20 Preview
|;old
|46152|Stage 1 berry bushes don't slow you down.
|126454|Riptide tridents don't reduce fall damage.
|163165|Can't continuously place blocks while jumping when above water.
|169595|Shield with globe pattern does not match java.
|174590|Resetting search bar doesn’t save after exiting creative inventory.
|176675|Some files and folders are no longer generated within external storage.
|;previous
|176939|Various blocks do not play the fall sound due to using the wrong key.
|177189|Sun rays illuminate dark areas in deferred rendering.
|177269|External storage is no longer activated automatically.
|177578|Held items don't show in inventory with deferred technical preview.
|177613|Wolf Armor doesn't protect Wolves from Creeper explosion damage.
|178063|Fireworks are launched in one place, when you hold down the use button.
|178037|Player Gets Softlocked To the “You died” Menu when Customizing Controls Whilst Dead.
|178077|Holding down right-click only places one boat.
|otherissuescount=11}}
'''Others'''
* Fixed lighting artifacts that could occur after suspending/resuming on Android in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Items held by players now cast shadows when in third-person in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Items held by mobs now cast shadows in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Fixed banner staffs not rendering while equipped in hand in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Improved point light color blending in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Fixed point lights behind the camera popping in and out in the Deferred Technical Preview.
* Fixed skylight not being updated properly when big gap of air were present between the ceiling and the floor.
* Fixed deleting the last story on a Realms Stories Feed page not redirecting you back to the previous page.
* Realms Stories no longer requires the game to restart after the feature is released.
* Fixed narration for main panel text and Realm Feed button on Realm Slots screen.
* Fixed a bug where pressing the back button at the choose a subscription screen would cause the “Preview Realms couldn’t load” message under some circumstances.
{{fixes|project=REALMS|fixedin=1.20.70.20 Preview
|;old
|10464|Attempting to remove an item from an item frame in Creative mode destroys the item frame.
|10536|Removing a book from a lectern in Creative mode removes the book and destroys the lectern.}}</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.70 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.70.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.70.20]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.70.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.70.20]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.70.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.70.20]]