{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.08}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.6.0.8.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' July 26, 2018
|parent=1.6.0
|prevparent=1.5.3
|prev=beta 1.6.0.6
|next=beta 1.6.0.30
|nextparent=1.6.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.6.0.8''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.6.0]], released on July 26, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360009123271-Minecraft-Beta-1-6-0-8-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.6.0.8 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)}}</ref> which fixes several bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
* Adjusted mouse input sensitivity for slower turning at lower values. ({{bug|MCPE-24677}})

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Cocoa beans now display correctly when using HD Resource Packs.
* Skin selections are once again saved after closing the game.
* The amount of fuel in brewing stands now converts from Console Edition worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-34677}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented sea turtles from laying eggs.
* Fixed zombies, husks, drowned, and zombie villagers not attacking sea turtle eggs.
* Fixed certain blocks missing the cracking texture while being broken in Survival mode.
* Village structures no longer generate with rotated stairs on the roofs. ({{bug|MCPE-34567}})
* Equipped items no longer disappear after player death. ({{bug|MCPE-35479}})
* Hostile mobs in boats can no longer attack from every angle. ({{bug|MCPE-16938}})
* Levers now have a "Use" controller hint.
* Players no longer clip through blocks and suffocate while swimming. ({{bug|MCPE-34112}})
* Resource packs once again apply when joining a multiplayer game that has a pack enabled. ({{bug|MCPE-33770}})
* Fixed inconsistent behavior when Attack/Destroy is mapped to Right-Click on the mouse. ({{bug|MCPE-23383}})
* Leads no longer flicker when playing in split-screen multiplayer.
* Fixed the cactus hitbox being displayed too low.
* Fixed an issue that caused touch screen actions to repeat after touch release.
* Fixed controls becoming unresponsive after resuming the game from standby. ({{bug|MCPE-22195}})
* Books can once again be stacked in the inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-35497}})
* Fixed an exploit that allowed players to obtain a 'Water' item. ({{bug|MCPE-28883}})
* Entities following a target entity will now navigate properly over slabs.
* Slabs with '{{code|can_place_on}}' tags can once again be placed by players in Adventure mode.
* Add-ons: '{{code|minecraft:behavior.player_ride_tamed}}' will now override all other AI goals.
* Add-ons: '{{code|movement.sway}}' once again allows mobs to move properly.
* Add-ons: The "{{code|is_biome}}" filter in the "{{code|minecraft:entity_spawned}}" event now properly adds and removes component groups.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.8]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.8]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.6.0.8]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.8]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.6 build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.6.0.8]]
[[ru:Beta 1.6.0.8 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.6.0.8]]