{{Infobox version
|title=v1.16.220
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.220_PatchNotes.png
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.220.png
|date=April 6, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.0
|prev=1.16.210
|next=1.16.221
|nextparent=1.17.0
|server=1.16.220.02
|internal='''Android''': 1.16.220.02<br>'''PlayStation''': 2.22<br>
'''Windows 10''': 1.16.22002.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.22002.70
|serverdl='''Server:'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.16.220.02.zip Windows], [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.16.220.02.zip Linux]
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.16.220''' is a minor update to {{el|be}} released on April 6, 2021, which fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360059426071|title=Minecraft - 1.16.220 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 6, 2021}}</ref>

Development phases contained some of the [[Caves & Cliffs]] features through [[experimental gameplay]], which were not included in the full release but became part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0|1.17.0]] and [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.0|1.18.0]].<ref>{{tweet|MattGartzke|1334183958586683396|My understanding is that Experimental Features only exist in Beta releases.}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|MattGartzke|1364622682201882626|You'll see more 1.16 versions before seeing 1.17. Increasing the second octet is still a little ways off, even though we're still testing Caves and Cliffs features. At the end of the day, it's just a version number.|25 Feb 2021}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Signs]]'''
* Sign text's color can now be changed with any of the 16 dyes to match ''Java Edition''.

=== Technical ===
'''Map making and [[add-on]]s'''
* Renamed all references of Actor to Entity.
* Renamed 'BlockPos' to 'BlockLocation'.
* Added 'startSequence' to GameTest, which allows finer control over advanced test sequences.
* GameTest sequence callbacks no longer take test as a parameter as the initial test object now lives as long as the whole test.
* Updated Behavior Packs to require explicit module dependencies when using other native modules.

'''GameTest framework'''
* Updated Blocks shorthand helpers to be camel case.
* Updated Blocks shorthand to only include vanilla blocks.
* Added Blocks.get to fetch a block and return null if it doesn't exist.
* Added BlockStates to enumerate all block states.
* Added setState to Block to update its block state.
* Added BlockPos class.
* Added ItemStack class GameTest module.
* Added Tags to enumerate all built-in tags.
* Updated all methods that took x, y, z position to take a BlockPos.
* Exposed padding when registering game test.

'''Movement prediction'''
* Fixed projectiles on third-party servers ignoring server movement packets.
* The server adjusts the player's fall distance to take into account the client player's position when a player movement correction or anomaly is detected.

'''Network packets'''
* Changed cipher algorithm to AESGCM256 for UDP stream.

== Fixes ==
'''Performance / stability'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to rename a map on an anvil while its second slot was occupied ({{bug|MCPE-112905}})
* Fixed a crash when entering a Nether Portal and throwing a Bottle o' Enchanting at the same time ({{bug|MCPE-114793}})
* Improved input latency on Windows 10 when VSYNC is enabled ({{bug|MCPE-98861}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed fog in Nether biomes not rendering properly in some Resource Packs ({{bug|MCPE-111680}})
* Players with Visitor permissions now drop inventory on death ({{bug|MCPE-47563}})

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed Drowned holding tridents backwards during attack ({{bug|MCPE-118213}})
* Drowned now swing their arms when throwing tridents
* Zombie, Zombie Villager, Husk, Pillager, and Vindicator now use correct bone to attach shields ({{bug|MCPE-98606}})
* Mobs that pick up shields now place it in their off-hand
* Non-persistent mobs no longer despawn immediately after loading into the Nether

'''Blocks'''
* Projectiles now pass through Structure Void blocks ({{bug|MCPE-103579}})
* Improved placement rules for placing blocks on sides of stairs, slabs, and Top Snow blocks
* Pistons and Sticky Pistons no longer appear black when Outline Selection is disabled ({{bug|MCPE-53858}})

'''Accessibility'''
* Enabled screen narration with touch input on the new achievements screen
* Fixed a bug where the screen reader didn't read out default controller focus and checkbox state on the 'Online Play is not Rated' prompt
* Fixed a bug where the screen reader would read the wrong text while using VR

'''User interface'''
* Enabled "Find Friends" button on Xbox
* Controllers are now able to select the "Button Mode" toggle in the Advanced Settings NPC screen in the Jurassic World pack ({{bug|MCPE-66446}})
* The "Results" field for search within the marketplace inventory now updates properly between different sections within the screen
* The death screen is now visible when behind full-screen effects (on fire, standing in a portal, etc.) while playing in VR
* Fixed translucent rendering of occluded UI elements, also when viewing menus near blocks while playing in VR
* Selecting the featured offer on the profile screen now properly redirects to the complete list of featured offers
* Made the Sign In button text fit the button in Portuguese-BR
* The Storage menu on now uses lighter text color
* Fixed an issue where button textures weren't scaled properly when applying Resource Packs
* Enabled navigating to the Back button using only keyboard in some screens where it was not possible

'''Commands '''
* Entity selectors no longer allow self-selection with cheats disabled ({{bug|MCPE-92635}})
* The '/clear' command now applies the correct "data" argument for the sapling item ({{bug|MCPE-117889}})
* Command blocks in a command block chain now list the correct amount of ticking areas when a new ticking area is added before listing
* Title command no longer duplicates % symbols in message ({{bug|MCPE-51033}})
* Using teleport with the execute command now uses the dimension of the origin for its operations ({{bug|MCPE-44104}})

'''Character creator '''
* Steve’s Pants no longer change the color of the bottom of feet when no footwear is equipped
* Fixed other players appearing as Steve in multiplayer
* Changing skins while in split-screen now properly saves for all local players and update properly for remote players
* Alex’s shirt no longer looks corrupted when equipped with different pants
* "Hooray!" emote now displays in the emotes section if already owned ({{bug|MCPE-111165}}).

'''Technical '''
* Identifiers within "render_controllers" are now considered content errors if there is no render controller matching that name
* Entity json before version 1.16.100 no longer gives a content error for the deprecated field "minecraft:foot_size"
* modified condition in 'trident.animation_controllers.json' to allow mobs to enter  'wield_third_person_raise' ({{bug|MCPE-118213}})
* Fixed an issue where loading into a world would cause continuous MoLang errors around "unhandled request for unknown variable"
* A black screen no longer covers the player icon in the pause menu in some worlds. Content creators no longer need to override both focus_border_frame.png and pause_screen_border.png for correct behavior
* Items can now have the "transparentattachable" tag applied to make attachable items not render for the player wearing them in the first person perspective
* Fixed an issue where V2 Villagers were not properly updating their MoLang variables on initialization.
* Fixed issue where previous failed GameTest markers still show up in new worlds.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.16.220]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.16.220]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.16.220]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition 1.16.220]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.16.220]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.16.220]]
[[ru:1.16.220 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:1.16.220 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.220]]