{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.9.0.5.png
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' January 10, 2019
|parent=1.9.0
|prevparent=1.8.1
|prev=beta 1.9.0.3
|nextparent=1.10.0
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.9.0.5''' is the fourth and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]], released on January 10, 2019, the first of the year,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360021830331-Minecraft-Beta-1-9-0-5-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.9.0.5 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=January 10, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs. This is the first beta released in 2019.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Dinosaurs are now able to damage players in the Dinosaur Island marketplace map.
* Fixed texel anti-aliasing so that terrain blocks now have sharper textures.
* Archers now raise their arms correctly in the marketplace pack "A Nightmare in Candyworld".
* Fixed a bug that could result in lost items when crafting from the recipe book with a full inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-39621}})
* Marketplace content will now download correctly without getting stuck in the process. ({{bug|MCPE-37467}})
* Signs now show the correct text in the "Infinity Plumber" marketplace map.
* Animated textures now loop at the correct speed.
* Pandas now hold food correctly when eating. ({{bug|MCPE-39061}})
* Empty slots are no longer highlighted in the skin picker for packs with less than 6 skins.
* Players can now join games that have previously had multiplayer turned off.
* Fixed the rabbit model in various packs.
* Fixed pigman arm positioning in the Mutant Battle Arena pack.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading in resource packs.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when created a new world with the Halloween Town template.
* The game no longer crashes when hovering over the arrow in the fletching table recipe book. ({{bug|MCPE-39355}})
* Blocks and hotbar items no longer have black textures. ({{bug|MCPE-39368}})
* Taiga biomes now generate correctly with podzol and other associated blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-39381}})
* Fixed the position of riders on mounts that allow multiple passengers.
* Sheep and Cats no longer appear black after being spawned with a spawn egg.
* Fixed a crash that could occur after exiting the settings screen.
* Strays now have correct arm positioning in the "Relics of the Skies" pack.
* Shulkers no longer turn black when attacking a player.
* Strays now have the correct texture layers again. ({{bug|MCPE-38155}})
* Horses will spawn as different variants (rather than just one type) when unspecified in the behavior pack.
* Rideable entities that use the '{{cd|minecraft:explode}}' component longer crash the game.
* The vex mob now holds items correctly in the "Stranded in Space" marketplace pack.
* Skeleton jockeys now sit correctly on spiders and skeleton horses. ({{bug|MCPE-40057}})
* Fixed another instance where the player could spawn in mid-air in Old world types. ({{bug|MCPE-38374}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.5]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.5]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.9.0.5]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.9.0.5]]
[[ru:Beta 1.9.0.5 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.9.0.5]]