{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.100.58.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.10058.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.10058.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.100.58<br>
|parent=1.16.100
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' September 30, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.61
|prev=beta 1.16.100.57
|next=beta 1.16.100.59
|nextparent=1.16.101
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.100.58''' is the ninth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.100]], released on September 30, 2020<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360050367191|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.100.58 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 30, 2020}}</ref>, which adds a new command and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|music}}'''
* Allows the player to control playing [[music]] tracks.

=== General ===
'''[[Splash]]es '''
* Added eight new splashes:
** Black lives matter!
** Be anti-racist!
** Learn about allyship!
** Speak OUT against injustice and UP for equality!
** Amplify and listen to [[wikipedia:BIPOC|BIPOC]] voices!
** Educate your friends on anti-racism!
** Support the BIPOC community and creators!
** Stand up for equality in your community!

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''Technical'''
* Removed legacy fall damage packet from client.
* Made some small changes around how we calculate the spawn position of dropped items from a player that dies from falling.
* Added support for the music command, allowing creators to play and control custom music.
* Changed LegacyCubemap from opaque to transparent ({{bug|MCPE-94275}}).
* Fog Definition identifier cannot use the {{cd|minecraft:}} namespace unless it's from a vanilla resource pack.
* Blocks that have ticking components will now clear their pending ticks from the ticking queue upon removal.
** Added the {{cd|on_player_destroyed}} trigger component.

* DataDrivenBlocks
** Middle click on non-default permutations of data driven blocks no longer throws an assert. Middle click now adds the default permutation of the block to your inventory.
** Added a fix for blocks computing ambient occlusion to behave more like vanilla by only contributing ambient occlusion if it's an opaque unit cube.
** Made data driven blocks with disabled collision pathable.

* Documentation
** Added documentation for block event responses and re-organized block documentation.

== Fixes ==
'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when rendering.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when a stunned entity loaded into the world.
* Fixed a crash that could occur in certain Marketplace layouts, and ensured the carousel is always populated correctly.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue with tall plants (bamboo, sugar cane, and cactus) breaking instantly ({{bug|MCPE-98111}}).
* Fixed a bug that prevented lava buckets from being used as fuel ({{bug|MCPE-100405}}).

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue where animations in the achievement screen could be played backwards.
* Fixed missing translation loading screen tip ({{bug|MCPE-100308}}).</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.58]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.58]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.100.58]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.58]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.100.58]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.100.58 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.100.58]]