{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.210.60.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21060.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21060.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.60<br>
|build=5443664
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' February 18, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=beta 1.16.210.59
|next=beta 1.16.210.61
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.60''' is the tenth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on February 18, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360057279331|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.60 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 18, 2021}}</ref> which added the GameTest automation tool, removed [[glow squid]] related features, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|gametest}}'''
* New command to test the GameTest features.

=== Technical ===
'''GameTest Framework '''
* A server-side test automation tool that is based on pairing test code with test structures. 
* Not functional on console platforms.
* Currently only accessible with Experimental Gameplay.

=== General ===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]]'''
* Added new experiments toggle: "Enable GameTest Framework”.

== Experimental ==
These Temporarily Removed and changes are no longer accessible by enabling the "[[Caves & Cliffs]]" experimental toggles.
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Glow Item Frame]]s'''
* Temporarily removed due to a crash.

'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Color on dyed signs disappears and the text turns back to black.
* Signs with applied glowing effect as well as color stops glowing and color is removed.

=== Items ===
'''[[Glow Ink Sac]]s'''
* Temporarily removed due to a crash.

'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Glow squid spawn egg is temporarily removed alongside the [[glow squid|mob]] itself.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Glow Squid]]'''
* Temporarily removed due to a crash.

== Fixes ==
'''Performance and Stability '''
* Fixed crash that could occur when loading a structure block that contained a Sculk Sensor ({{bug|MCPE-115443}}).
* Fixed a crash that could occur when interacting with a sign ({{bug|MCPE-117513}}).

'''General '''
* Raised the time limit for selecting whether to download a resource pack on connect from 5 seconds to 5 minutes.

'''New UI '''
* The new achievements screens are now enabled by default (except in VR, on PS4, or on touch devices with narration enabled). 

'''Multiplayer '''
* The in-game invite screen will now refresh when you return to it from the add members screen.

'''Character Creator '''
* Fixed a bug where changes to the character creator are lost when application is out of context. 
* Fixed a bug where tabbing out after changing to the "Character Creator" tab from "Classic Skins" tab will cause Classic Skin to be equipped instead of Character Creator persona.
* A new character is now created if no valid character exists when the dressing room is opened.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.60]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.60]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.60]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.60]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.60 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.60]]