{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.30.22 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.30.22.png
|image3=Bedrock 1.18.30.23.png
|image4=Bedrock 1.18.30.24.png
|type=Preview
|internal=;Beta
'''Windows''': 1.18.3022.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.3022.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.30.22<br>
'''Preview'''
'''Windows''': 1.18.3023.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.3023.70<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': 1.18.30.24<br>
|parent=1.18.30
|date='''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''': March 9, 2022
|prevparent=1.18.12
|prev=Preview 1.18.30.21
|next=Preview 1.18.30.27
|nextparent=1.18.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.30.22''' (Windows, Android, Xbox), '''Preview 1.18.30.23''' (Windows, Xbox), or '''Preview 1.18.30.24''' (iOS, iPadOS)<ref>{{tweet|JORAX79|1501691902181085184|This week's build is now available! It had to be re-versioned to 1.18.30.24, but is the same as what is in the current changelog. Thanks for your patience!|March 9, 2022}}</ref> is the seventh beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.30]], released on March 9, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4675499616013|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.18.30.22/23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 9, 2022}}</ref> which adds the [[allay]] behind [[experimental gameplay]], and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Shulker]]s'''
* Now have a chance to spawn another shulker when hit by a shulker projectile.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Controls]]'''
* Updated touch control schemes.
** Can be enabled by navigating to Settings > Touch > Enable New Touch Control Schemes.

=== Technical ===
'''Components'''
* The trade screen will no longer open if the owner of the {{cd|minecraft:economy_trade_table}} component is on [[fire]].

'''General'''
* Random tick positions will no longer be chosen below the world.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Wild Update", "Molang Features", and "GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.

=== Additions ===
==== Mobs ====
'''[[Allay]]'''
* Can collect the same items from the world as it holds in its hand.
* If holds an item it got from a player, it will follow that player.
* Able to drop items at nearby [[note block]]s.
* When playing a note block near them, that note block becomes their favorite one for 30 seconds, and they will attempt to drop off items at the note block rather than at the player.
* If they have items in their inventory, they will attempt to give them to their owner.
* Sometimes spawn in cages next to [[pillager outpost]]s (similar to [[iron golem]]), and inside [[woodland mansion]]s.

=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Note Block]]'''
* Placing a block on top of a note block will no longer mute it.
** The exceptions are [[wool]] blocks, which will still mute the sound. This is similar to the way they make vibrations undetectable to the [[sculk sensor]].

'''[[Sculk Catalyst]]'''
* Made changes to match recent redesign:
** Blooms when mobs die within an 8-block radius.
** Mobs will not drop experiences when perished in the presence of the block, a bubbling charge will be created where they perished instead.
*** The charge from mobs will spread through Sculk Veins and Sculk blocks in random directions until they find a valid substrate that they can convert into [[sculk]].
*** The value of the charge is directly proportional to the amount of experiences the perished mob would have dropped, and each time a block is converted into sculk, it will remove 1 value from that charge.
*** This charge in the sculk blocks and [[sculk veins]] will eventually decay, but it will decay much, much slower in the close vicinity of the sculk catalyst, and much faster away from its host.
*** If the charge decays 4 blocks away from the catalyst, it has a chance of growing a sculk sensor or a [[sculk shrieker]].
*** Charges and their values also merge when they move to the same position.

'''[[Sculk Sensor]]'''
* Made some changes in parity:
** Now make no activation sound when waterlogged.
** Vibrations are now also occluded by [[wool]] blocks.

==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Darkness]]'''
* Lowers the gamma down at an equivalent of “Moody” while having this [[effect]].

==== Technical ====
'''[[Molang]]'''
* Clarified documentation for {{cd|query.is_item_name_any}} that the slot index is required when there is more than one slot, i.e. the hotbar.

'''GameTest Framework'''
* {{cd|EntityType}}
** Added read-only property {{cd|id: string}} - The identifier for the entity type.
* {{cd|EntityTypes}}
** Added function {{cd|get(identifier: string): EntityType}} - Returns the corresponding {{cd|EntityType}} for the given identifier.
** Added function {{cd|getAll(): EntityTypeIterator}} - Returns an iterator containing all registered entity types.
* {{cd|MinecraftEntityTypes}}
** Provides {{cd|EntityType}} constants for each standard Minecraft entity type.

'''General'''
* Removed {{cd|d=and|BlockImmovable|BlockBreakOnPush|BlockOnlyPistonPush}} components from data-driven blocks.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Changed the spawning logic for iron golems and [[cat]]s to make it easier for them to spawn in roofed areas, like underground [[village]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-142292}})
* [[Scaffolding]] can no longer be placed without support on Y=0. ({{bug|MCPE-150765}})
* Fire that exists before the {{cd|doFireTick}} [[game rule]] is enabled will continue to spread again. ({{bug|MCPE-140396}})

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* [[Shulker]]s now have a chance to spawn another shulker when hit by a shulker projectile. ({{bug|MCPE-104826}})
* When a mob picks up an item, the item can be seen slightly "pulled" towards the mob right as it picks it up.
* [[Blaze fireball]] will deal knockback on impact.
* [[Acacia]] trees now grow [[leaves]] on every branch below Y=0. ({{bug|MCPE-151386}})
* Mobs can no longer spawn on [[campfire]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-152770}})

'''Blocks'''
* [[Glow lichen]] does not generate hanging in the air inside [[stronghold]]s anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-123448}})
* Glow lichen now correctly checks for the face of the block they are attached to be full.
* Glow Lichen can now be attached to leaves.
* Blocks such as glow lichen, [[torch]]es, and [[redstone]] can no longer be placed on or attached to [[brewing stand]]s.
* Blocks such as glow lichen, torches, and redstone can now be placed on or attached to [[trapdoor]]s, depending on their state.
* Azaleas and [[lily pad]]s are now broken by flowing [[water]]. ({{bug|MCPE-152040}})

'''Commands'''
* Fixed an issue that would cause commands to affect players in all [[dimension]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-152218}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed lighting bug where [[light level]] 1 incorrectly dropped to 0 when placing blocks in light level 1 with multiple light sources. ({{bug|MCPE-151266}})
* Sculk sensors and [[magma block]]s are now visible in the darkness.

'''Items'''
* [[Observer]]s placed facing double [[chest]]s no longer send out a redstone pulse when reloading/re-entering a [[chunk]].

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug where the "Invite" button was disabled incorrectly for clients.
* Added Seed Templates to the advanced tab in the new [[Create New World]] screen. ({{bug|MCPE-151930}})

'''Villager'''
* [[Villager]]s are no longer able to [[trade]] while on fire.

'''Technical'''
* Changed block ([[cactus]], [[chorus flower]], [[crop]], [[grass]], [[pointed dripstone]], [[sapling]]) [[tick]] rates to match {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-145612}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.18.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.30.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.30.22]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.18.30.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.18.30.23]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.30.22]]