{{Infobox version
| image =  Bedrock 1.20.0.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.0.22.png
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| server = 1.20.0.22
| build = 15214963
| editorver = 0.3.5
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952000022 (armeabi-v7a, 33)<br>
962000022 (x86, 33)<br>
972000022 (arm64-v8a, 33)<br>
982000022 (x86_64, 33)<br>
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - April 26, 2023
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.20.22.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.0.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.0.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.0.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.0
| prevparent = 1.19.83
| prev = Preview 1.20.0.21
| next = Preview 1.20.0.23
| nextparent = 1.20.1
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.20.0.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.0.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.0]], released on April 26, 2023<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/15239921044109|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.20.0.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 26, 2023}}</ref> which adds a new [[music disc]], new {{cmd|camera}} [[command]], new [[music]], and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Experiments]]'''
* Added the "Experimental Cameras" experimental toggle.
** Enable the {{cmd|camera}} [[command]].

'''[[Loading tips]]'''
* Added the following loading screen tips:
** Explore structures throughout the Minecraft world to find smithing templates to trim your armor pieces.
** Need more smithing templates? Try to copy them.
** The sniffer egg seems to like moss blocks.
** Mob heads make sounds, try them out on note blocks!
** Some sand might be suspicious. Use your brush on it to find some good stuff!
** Two players can ride together on a camel.
** The camels jump... horizontally!

'''[[Music]]'''
* Added new ambient soundtracks, all by [[Aaron Cherof]].
** "A Familiar Room" plays in survival mode (all biomes).
** "Bromeliad" plays in [[bamboo jungle]], [[cherry grove]], [[flower forest]], [[forest]], [[jungle]], [[sparse jungle]].
** "Crescent Dunes" plays in [[desert]], all types of [[badlands]].
** "Echo in the Wind" plays in cherry grove, flower forest, [[lush caves]], all types of badlands.

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added the following splashes: 
** This sand is sus
** Remember to brush your... ...teeth
** Has working bookshelves!
** Sniff sniff...
** Place hanging sign here

=== Items ===
'''[[Music Disc]]'''
* Added a new music disc by [[Aaron Cherof]] titled "[[Relic]]".
** Can only be obtained when brushing [[suspicious gravel]]s within [[trail ruins]], with {{frac|1|12}} chance appeared as a rare loot.
** Emits a [[redstone]] signal of 14.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Sculk Sensor]] and [[Calibrated Sculk Sensor]]'''
*Sculk Sensors and Calibrated Sculk Sensors now have three phases: Inactive, Active, and Cooldown
*The default phase is Inactive
**This phase lasts indefinitely until the block receives a vibration
**During this phase, the block is able to listen to nearby vibrations until one has been scheduled
*When a scheduled vibration is received, the block switches to the Active phase
**This phase lasts 30 game ticks for Sculk Sensors, and 10 game ticks for Calibrated Sculk Sensors
**During this phase, the block stops listening to nearby vibrations, wiggles its tendrils, and emits a Redstone signal and light
*After the Active phase has finished, the block switches to a Cooldown phase
**This phase lasts for 10 game ticks
**During this phase, the block keeps wiggling its tendrils, but no longer emits a Redstone signal nor light
**Finally, once this phase is finished, the block will switch back to the Inactive phase
*Previously, these phases had different timings:
**The Active phase lasted 40 game ticks for Sculk Sensors and 20 game ticks for Calibrated Sculk Sensors
**There was no Cooldown phase
*These phase timings were tweaked so that it is less common for activated contraptions to recursively activate the Sculk Sensor that powered them.

'''[[Sniffer Egg]]'''
* Can now be found in the [[suspicious sand]] [[loot table]] found at warm [[ocean ruins]].
* Now emits particles only when placed on [[moss block]]s.

=== General ===
'''[[Death screen]]'''
* Reverted changes when the "Show Coordinates" setting is enabled.

=== Items ===
'''[[Pottery Sherd]]'''
* Renamed from Pottery Shard to [[Pottery Sherd]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Sniffer]]'''
* Can now be tempted using [[torchflower seeds]].
* Sniffer now rather breeds than search and dig for items or be tempted.

'''[[Camel]]s'''
*The tooltip for dismounting Camels has been updated to match the one for other rideable mobs.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Trail Ruins]]'''
* Reworked and added more variants.
* No longer generates with [[sand]].
* Tweaked the amount of [[gravel]] and [[dirt]].
* Tweaked the amount of [[suspicious gravel]].
* Split the archaeological loot tables for the suspicious gravel within the structure.
** Rare loot items and common loot items now each have their own dedicated archaeological loot table.

=== Technical ===
'''Add-Ons and Script Engine'''
*Pumpkin blocks use the string type state {{cd|minecraft:cardinal_direction}} instead of the int type {{cd|direction}} state.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Experimental Cameras" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|camera}}'''
* A new [[command]] that can switch to custom camera perspectives and fade the screen.
** Syntax: (Simplified)
*** {{cd|'''camera''' <players: target> . . .}}
**** {{cd|... '''''clear'''''}}
**** {{cd|... '''''fade''''' . . .}}
***** {{cd|... color <red: float> <green: float> <blue: float>}}
***** {{cd|... time <fadeInSeconds: float> <holdSeconds: float> <fadeOutSeconds: float> . . .}}
****** {{cd|... color <red: float> <green: float> <blue: float>}}
**** {{cd|... '''''set''''' <preset: string> . . .}}
***** {{cd|... [default: default]}}
***** {{cd|... ease <easeTime: float> <easeType: Easing> . . .}}
****** {{cd|... [default: default]}}
****** {{cd|... pos <position: x y z> . . .}}
******* {{cd|... rot <xRot: value> <yRot: value>}}
****** {{cd|... rot <xRot: value> <yRot: value>}}
***** {{cd|... pos <position: x y z> . . .}}
****** {{cd|... rot <xRot: value> <yRot: value>}}
***** {{cd|... rot <xRot: value> <yRot: value>}}

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Changed {{cd|minecraft:cardinal_direction}} and {{cd|minecraft:facing_direction}} states from int to string type.
** {{cd|minecraft:cardinal_direction}} has four values {{cd|["north", "south", "east", "west"]}}.
** {{cd|minecraft:facing_direction}} has six values {{cd|["down", "up", "north", "south", "east", "west"]}}.
* Removed {{cd|knockback_resistance}} item component.

'''API'''
* New APIs moved from beta to stable {{cd|@minecraft/server 1.2.0}}:
** Moving {{cd|applyDamage(amount: number, options?: EntityApplyDamageByProjectileOptions | EntityApplyDamageOptions): boolean}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|kill(): boolean}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|EntityApplyDamageOptions}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|EntityApplyDamageByProjectileOptions}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|EntityDamageCause}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|addTag(tag: string)}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|removeTag(tag: string)}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|hasTag(tag: string)}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|getTags()}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moved "Containerand" {{cd|BlockInventoryComponent}} and {{cd|EntityInventoryComponent}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moved ''Music APIs'' from beta to stable.
** Moved ''Sound APIs'' from beta to stable.
** Moved {{cd|ModalFormData}}, {{cd|MessageFormData}}, and {{cd|ActionFormData}} to {{cd|0.0}}.
** Moved {{cd|ItemStackconstructor}} and ''getter APIs'' to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moved {{cd|EntityItemComponent}}, {{cd|ItemComponent}}, {{cd|ItemTypeand}}, and {{cd|ItemLockMode}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|applyImpulse(vector: Vector3): void}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|applyKnockback(directionX: number, directionZ: number, horizontalStrength: number, verticalStrength: number): void}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moving {{cd|clearVelocity(): void}} to {{cd|2.0}}.
** Moved {{cd|runCommand}} from beta to {{cd|2.0}}.
* Enchantments
** Removed {{cd|MinecraftEnchantmentTypes}} class. Use {{cd|MinecraftEnchantmentTypes}} from {{cd|@minecraft/vanilla-data}} module for minecraft version specific information.
** Added support for {{cd|strings}} in all enchantment methods for specifying the enchantment type.
* source on {{cd|ExplosionBeforeEvent}} is now an optional property because explosions may not have a source.
* Tameable component
** Removed {{cd|unimplemented}} and {{cd|tameEvent}} from {{cd|TameableComponent}}.
* Updated API to better handle operations outside of loaded and ticking areas.
* {{cd|PositionInUnloadedChunkError: Exception}} thrown when trying to interact with a block object that isn't in a loaded and ticking chunk anymore.
* {{cd|PositionOutOfWorldBoundariesError: Exception}} thrown when trying to interact with a position outside of dimension height range.
* Dimension
** {{cd|getBlock}} now returns an optional Block to reflect it might return 'undefined' if asking for a block at an unloaded chunk.
* Signs
** Added optional {{cd|SignSide}} parameter to functions {{cd|setText}}, {{cd|getText}}, {{cd|getRawText}}, {{cd|setTextDyeColor}}, and {{cd|getTextDyeColor}} on {{cd|BlockSignComponent}} to support getting and setting text and colors on both sides of signs.
** Added {{cd|isWaxed}} property to {{cd|BlockSignComponent}} indicating whether players can edit the sign or not.
** Added {{cd|setWaxed}} method to {{cd|BlockSignComponent}} to block players from editing the sign.
* {{cd|runCommand}} and {{cd|runCommandAsync}} on {{cd|Dimension}} and {{cd|Entity}} can now fail with a {{cd|CommandError}}.
** {{cd|runCommand}} can throw a {{cd|CommandError}} exception.
** {{cd|runCommandAsync}} will pass a {{cd|CommandError}} into the reject handler.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.0.22 Preview
|;old
|163399|Greek Mythology Mashup / Items in Frames
|165962|Some splashes are written without "!" in Bedrock
|167193|Sniffer digging doesn't have digging particles playing
|168856|The loot table for suspicious blocks generated in trail ruins has two identical entries for bricks
|168869|Trail Ruins structure aren't completely buried underground
|168934|Raiser and Wayfinder smithing template texture are offset by 1 Pixel
|168999|Flight mode is disabled when flying under stairs and hoppers
|169141|You can't plant bamboo on suspicious gravel
|169142|Can't plant bamboo, cactus, sugar cane and dead bush on suspicious sand
|169567|Bees still make player eat sound
|169607|Torchflowers cannot be used to feed brown mooshrooms
|;previous
|169498|The pitcher plant recipe does not craft two dyes, which is inconsistent with other two block tall flowers
|otherissuescount=8}}
'''Other'''
*Custom items with {{cd|minecraft:record}} show the correct sound description in hover text and on playing in a jukebox.
*Has item command selector now correctly detects whether or not an actor has a filled map or firework star in their inventory.
*The {{cmd|/inputpermission}} command now has a description displayed in the command dialogue preview.
*Fixed an issue where the plant textures appeared darker.
*Sugar Cane and Bamboo can now be placed on Moss Block.
*Sniffer can no longer search and dig in water.
*Made Sniffer walk cycle smoother.
*Fixed bug in response of {{cd|MessageFormResponse}} where selection was inverted from which button was selected. {{cd|button1}} now refers {{cd|**}} to the left button and results in a selection of 0 and {{cd|button2}} now refers to the right button and results in a selection of 1.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.0 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.0.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.0.22]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.0.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.0.22]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.0.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.0.22]]