{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.60.26 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.60.26.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| versioncode='''Android''':<br>
951906026 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961906026 (x86, 31)<br>
971906026 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981906026 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - January 11, 2023
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.6026.0<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.6026.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.60.26
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.60.26.zip Windows]
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.60.26.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.60
| prevparent = 1.19.51
| prev = Preview 1.19.60.25
| next = Preview 1.19.60.27
| nextparent = 1.19.62
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.60.26''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.60.26''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the sixth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.60]], released on January 11, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/12150896518669|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.60.26|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 11, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Technical ===
'''Graphical'''
* Fix text being slightly off-centered to the left for Furnace, Blast Furnace, and Smoker Screen UIs. ({{bug|MCPE-151597}})
'''User Interface'''
* Resource packs will now be applied to the world after navigating to another screen before creation.
* Fixed an issue where some resource packs prompted an error after being downloaded.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Hanging Sign]]'''
* Placing a hanging sign under an axis-aligned hanging sign with V-shaped chains will now result in a hanging sign with double chains, if the player is not sneaking.

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* RawMessage
** Changed the signature of property withfrom ''(string[] | RawMessage)[]?''  to ''(string[] | RawMessage)?''.

* EntityHealthComponent
** Fixed a bug where health could be modified on dead entities. ({{bug|MCPE-130687}})
* Scoreboard
** Added ''setScore(ScoreboardObjective, ScoreboardIdentity, Number)''.
** Added ''getScore(ScoreboardObjective, ScoreboardIdentity)''.
* ScoreboardObjective
** Added ''setScore(ScoreboardIdentity, Number)''.
** Added ''getScore(ScoreboardIdentity)''.
** Added ''removeParticipant(ScoreboardIdentity)''.
* ScoreboardIdentity
** Added ''setScore(ScoreboardObjective, Number)''.
** Added ''getScore(ScoreboardObjective)''.
** Added ''removeFromObjective(ScoreboardObjective)''.
'''Commands'''
* Reverted an experimental change to animation controller command deferral within the “Upcoming Creator Features” experiment.
'''JSON'''
* Release ''BlockPlacementFilterComponent'' outside of experimental toggle in JSON formats 1.19.60 and higher.

== Fixes ==
'''Commands'''
* Fixed a bug causing players to not wake up when teleported while sleeping. ({{bug|MCPE-162346}})
'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue where the "Inception" achievement would not be awarded.
'''Graphical'''
* The UI no longer flickers on Android when the keyboard pops up. ({{bug|MCPE-142356}})
* Highlight selection no longer highlights entire card for transparent objects like saplings.
* V-sync settings are properly configured in options (non-ARM devices). ({{bug|MCPE-110006}})
* Resource packs will now be applied to the worlds after navigating to another screen before creation.
* Fixed an issue where some resource packs prompted the user with an error after being downloaded.
'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed a potential crash when gliding through an End Gateway.
* The game no longer crashes when killing an entity with invalid conditions, functions, or pools entries in its loot table. ({{bug|MCPE-164623}})
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Levers now produce the same sound effect as Stone Buttons. ({{bug|MCPE-163335}})
'''Touch Controls'''
* Fixed the stack splitting feature in non-touch mode.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.60 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.60.26]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.60.26]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.60.26]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.60.26]]