{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.2.0
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = '''Preview'''<br>
November 11, 2025<br>
'''Stable'''<br>
December 9, 2025
| client = '''Preview'''<br>
[[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.130.27|1.21.130.27]]<br>
'''Stable'''<br>
[[Bedrock Edition 1.21.130|1.21.130]]
| prevparent = 1.1.0
| prev = 1.1.9
| next = 1.2.1
| nextparent = 
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.2.0''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released in Preview on November 11, 2025, and in retail on December 9, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/272|title=Release 1.2.0 (1.21.130.27)|website=GitHub|date=November 11, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/283|title=Editor v1.2.0 is now in retail via the Launcher|website=GitHub|date=December 9, 2025}}</ref><ref>
{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/41048727929101-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-130-27|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.130.27|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 11, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added Generate Manifest button to Selection Tool.
** Added Deselect and Replace operations to Selection Tool block manifest - allows removing or replacing specific block types from the selection.
* Added "Paint" key bind for pencil in keyboard settings.
* Added filtering options in the Structure panel. Filtering can be by structure display name or Structure tags.
* Added [[Jigsaw]] block editing to the block inspector.
* Added bypass validation warning screen to generate jigsaw workflow.
* Added localized message and sub message support for logging APIs.
* Added new Raise and Lower Elevation modes for Terrain Tool.
** Ability to adjust brush falloff.
** Ability to specify how many terrain layers to clone or preserve when raising/lowering.
** Ability to adjust the brush radius.
** Added ability to hold the SHIFT key to lock the brush XZ coordinates in place while painting.
* Added Layout Instance baking (bake individual instances and added to export world and playtest) so that layouts are converted from holograms to actual blocks (Only works for Overworld at the moment).
** Added Mirror/Rotation to layout templates.
** Added Mirror/Rotation to layout instances.
** Added Mirror and Rotation properties to instance Editor.
** Note: Only Overworld is supported for layout baking at the moment. The Nether and End will be supported in a future update.

== Changes ==
* Updated the selection limit for Selection, Paste Preview, Line, Pencil, Brush, Smartfill, Terrain, Workbench, Ruler, Block inspector, Scale, Farm generator tools to match the video render distance setting.
* Updated UI and added multiplayer behaviors in Navigation Pane.
** Stored Locations are shared across all creators in the project and synced for new joiners.
** Implemented edit functionality for name, coordinates, and color of Stored Locations.
** Added select/deselect-all and delete option with confirmation modal; deletion affects all users.
** Introduced a new panel listing all creators in the project with color indicators.
** Added teleportation feature to jump to any other creator.
* Updated Quick Move functionality.
** Changed switching to Quick Move mode binding from {{keys|M}} to {{keys|N}}.
** Changed default keybinding for moving with the arrow keys with {{keys|Alt+Shift+Arrow}}.
** Both previous changes remove keybinding conflicts with other Selection mode shortcuts.
** Made it so the gizmo arm won't disappear after you use it.
** Made the preview more transparent.
** You cannot enter quick move now if there is no selection.
** Fixed a bug where if you went from quick move to a selection (creation) mode that wasn't the last you used the selection state would get messed up. Now it correctly will clear the selection.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed structure panel UI performance for projects containing a large number of structures.
* Fixed an issue where selecting certain [[Vibrant Visuals]] settings caused an error.
* Fixed brush applying masked blocks incorrectly after switching dimensions.
* Fixed unhandled extrude tool error when it's being applied out of world bounds.
* Fixed a critical crash and several logic issues in the Ruler Tool when using axis locks and editing start/end points.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[es:Bedrock Editor 1.2.0]]
[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.2.0]]