{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.57 (cropped).jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.210.57 PatchNotes.jpg
|image3=Bedrock 1.16.210.57.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21057.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21057.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.57<br>
|build=5314479
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' January 28, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=beta 1.16.210.56
|next=beta 1.16.210.58
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.57''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on January 28, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360055750032|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.57 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 28, 2021}}</ref> which added the [[copper]] related features, and fixes bugs.<ref>{{Mcnet|copper-and-lightning-rod-now-bedrock-beta|Copper and lightning rod now in Bedrock Beta|28 Jan 2021}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Can now put [[honeycomb]] to wax [[copper block]]s.

'''[[Redstone Dust|Redstone]]'''
* Now renamed as "Redstone Dust" to match ''Java Edition''.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Drowned]]'''
* Now drops copper ingots instead of gold ingots.
** Only possible with Caves & Cliffs experiments toggle enabled.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "[[Caves & Cliffs]]" experimental toggles.
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Copper Block]]'''
* Can be crafted with 4 copper ingots, and can also be crafted back into 4 copper ingots.
* Oxidizes and changes texture to a turquoise-green over time.
* Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create a Waxed Copper Block.
* Can be crafted into cut copper.
* Available under experimental gameplay.

'''[[Copper Ore]]'''
* Generates randomly underground in small blobs, but this has been confirmed to be a placeholder.
* Has the same rarity as iron.
* Generating starts at the same minimum level(s) as iron.
* Can be smelted into a copper ingot.
* Can be randomly rotated.
* Available under experimental gameplay.

'''[[Cut Copper|Cut Copper Block]]'''
* Can be made into stair and slab variants.
* Oxidizes and changes texture over time.
* Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create Waxed Cut Copper Block.
* Available under experimental gameplay.

'''[[Cut Copper Slab]]'''
* Oxidizes and changes texture over time.
* Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create a Waxed Cut Copper Slab.
* Available under experimental gameplay.

'''[[Cut Copper Stairs]]'''
* Oxidizes and changes texture over time.
* Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create Waxed Cut Copper Stairs.
* Available under experimental gameplay.

'''[[Lightning Rod]]'''
* Can be crafted with 3 copper ingots.
* Nearby lightning strikes within a 64-block radius get redirected to the lightning rod.
* Gives off a redstone signal with a strength of 15 if hit by lightning.
* Available under experimental gameplay.

=== Items ===
'''[[Copper Ingot]]'''
* Obtained by smelting copper ore or as a rare drop from drowned.
* Used to craft copper blocks and lightning rods.
* Available under experimental gameplay.

== Fixes ==
'''Accessibility '''
* Keyboard inputs can now adjust slider settings when the cursor is outside the UI frame.
* Screen Reader now informs the player when the "Chat Settings" menu has been opened.
* Fixed a bug where the UI screen reader did not read the permission toggles' titles on the Permissions Screen.
* Screen Reader now reads Whisper and Announcement messages.

'''Performance and Stability '''
* Improved the smoothness of UI transition animations for some devices ({{bug|MCPE-41772}}).
* Improved performance for actors using TemptGoal.
 
'''General '''
* Fixed an issue that prevented player interaction after using the '/clone' command on a double chest block ({{bug|MCPE-109119}}).
* Using the {{cmd|clone}} command to clone a block of the same type is no longer treated as a failed operation ({{bug|MCPE-83352}}). 
* Fixed players taking fall damage when opening Shulker Boxes ({{bug|MCPE-105490}}).
* Nether Brick now gives XP from being smelted ({{bug|MCPE-100030}}).
* All mobs that use a melee attack have had their ability to hit targets above and below them restored.
** The target still must be within melee attack distance to be hit.
** This only affects world versions greater than or equal to 1.16.210.
  
'''Graphical and User Interface '''
* Tool and armor recipes now display the selected item background when selected in the recipe list  
* Wireframe of a structure block in the Overworld will no longer render in Nether and The End ({{bug|MCPE-75231}})  
* Audio sliders will now always highlight when hovered over with a mouse  
* Durability bar is now visible when holding items with decreased durability in a window ({{bug|MCPE-105893}})
* Added more helpful Video Settings messages for ray tracing on supported and non-supported platforms.

'''[[Structure block]]'''
* Structure blocks no longer auto-save the data when the structure name text box is deselected ({{bug|MCPE-101055}}). 
* The scoreboard data of an entity is no longer removed if the entity is being teleported to an unloaded area of the world.
* Teleporting away from a structure animation to unload it no longer causes the game to crash.

'''Commands, Scripting, and Add-ons '''
* A warning now appears when attempting to move a locked item in and from containers.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.57]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.57]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.57]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.57]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.57 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.57]]