{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.2.14.2.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|parent=1.4.0
|date=March 28, 2018
|prevparent=1.2.13.60
|prev=
|next=beta 1.2.14.3
|nextparent=1.4.1
}}<onlyinclude> 

'''Beta 1.2.14.2''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.4.0]], released on March 28, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004124912-Minecraft-Beta-1-2-14-3-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.2.14.2 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)}}</ref> which adds more [[Update Aquatic]] features and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Blue ice]]'''
* Generates in [[iceberg]]s.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Emits a light level of 4.

'''[[Button]]s, [[pressure plate]]s, and [[trapdoor]]s'''
* Now come in all 6 wood types.

'''[[Coral]]'''
* Come in 5 variants: brain, bubble, fire, horn, and tube.
* Can only be placed underwater.
* Naturally generate in coral reefs.
* Can only be obtained with a [[Silk Touch]] tool.

'''[[Coral block]]s'''
* Come in 5 variants: brain, bubble, fire, horn, and tube.
* Naturally generate in coral reefs.
* Must be mined with a Silk Touch pickaxe to drop itself, otherwise they drop a dead coral block.

'''[[Coral fan]]s'''
* Come in 5 variants: brain, bubble, fire, horn, and tube.
* Naturally generate in coral reefs.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Have a dead variant.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Coral fans and its dead variants can be placed at the top of an underwater block.
* Can only be obtained with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch.

'''[[Dead coral block]]s'''
* Come in the same 5 variants as coral: brain, bubble, fire, horn, and tube.
* Obtained by mining a coral block without a Silk Touch pickaxe.
* Naturally generate in coral reefs.

'''[[Dead coral fan]]s'''
* Come in the same 5 variants as coral: brain, bubble, fire, horn, and tube.
* Naturally generate in coral reefs.
* Can only be obtained with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch.

'''[[Dried kelp block]]'''
* Crafted with 9 dried kelp.
* Can be used as a fuel in [[furnace]]s, smelting 20 items per block.

'''[[Kelp]]'''
* Generates in [[ocean]]s.
* Can only be placed in water.
* Can grow multiple blocks high.
* Has animated textures.
* Can be smelted into dried kelp.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Kelp in the inventory has a unique texture.

'''[[Seagrass]]'''
* Generates in oceans, [[river]]s, and [[swamp]]s.
* Can additionally be generated when using [[bone meal]] on blocks underwater.
* Has a tall variant.
* Has animated textures.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Has a darker green color.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Seagrass in the inventory uses the texture of normal [[grass]].

'''[[Water]]'''
* New water behavior
** A water source block can now be placed inside of most non-solid blocks.
** Flowing water will still not flow into non-solid blocks.
** Blocks can now be placed underwater without creating pockets of air around them.

=== Items ===
'''[[Bucket of Fish]]'''
* Come in 4 variants: cod, salmon, pufferfish, and tropical fish.
* Obtained by using a water bucket on a fish mob.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Bucket of pufferfish has a different texture than {{in|je}}.

'''[[Dried kelp]]'''
* Obtained from smelting kelp.
* Can be used to craft dried kelp blocks.
* Can be eaten, restoring {{hunger|1}} hunger point.

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* [[Cod]]
* [[Pufferfish]]
* [[Salmon]]
* [[Tropical Fish]]
* {{Version exclusive}}: The spawn eggs look like [[wikipedia:Roe|roe]] with the respective color.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Drowned]]'''
* Added a baby drowned variant.

'''[[Fish mob]]s'''
* [[Cod]]
** Spawn in cold, normal, lukewarm oceans, and their variants.

* [[Pufferfish]]
** Spawn only in warm oceans.
** Inflate themselves when a player gets near.
** Inflict a nearby player with [[Poison]] for 7 seconds.

* [[Salmon]]
** Spawn in cold, normal, frozen, lukewarm oceans, and their variants.

* [[Tropical Fish]]
** Spawn only in warm and deep warm oceans.
** Come in 14 different colors and patterns.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Biome]]s'''
* Added cold, lukewarm, warm oceans, and their deep variants.

'''[[Buried treasure]]'''
* A structure that consists of a buried chest with loot in it.
* [[Treasure map]]s can lead the player to them.

'''[[Coral reef]]s'''
* Naturally generate in warm oceans.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Coral fans, dead coral blocks, and dead coral fans naturally spawn as parts of them.

'''[[Iceberg]]s'''
* Naturally generate on frozen oceans.

'''[[Shipwreck]]s'''
* Can be found in oceans and [[beach]]es.
* Contain 1–3 loot chests containing different types of loot depending on the ship.
* Can generate upright, sideways or upside down.
* {{Version exclusive}}: [[Stripped log]]s naturally spawn as parts of them.

'''[[Ravine|Underwater ravine]]s'''
* Naturally generate in oceans.

=== General ===
'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Added an Inventory section to manage all of the player's acquired content.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Pumpkin]]s'''
* Can now be sheared into [[carved pumpkin]]s.

=== Items ===
'''[[Fish]]'''
* Added new textures for raw fish, cooked fish, raw salmon, cooked salmon, tropical fish, and pufferfish.

'''[[Lead]]s'''
* Can now be attached to boats.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Drowned]]'''
* Drowned faces now glow in the dark.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''General'''
* Items now float in water.

=== Gameplay ===
'''General'''
* Tweaked the directional movement of the gameplay cursor for more predictable movement.

== Fixes ==
* Improved load times in the Skin Picker and when applying resource packs.
* 'Delicious Fish' achievement will now unlock after cooking and eating salmon.
* Fishing will now give the proper chance of catching a stack of 10 ink sacs.
* When riding a boat and hitting a mob with the Knockback enchantment, the mob will no longer be always knocked toward the east.
* Snow covered leaves no longer appear red when Smooth Lighting is disabled.
* Commands in chains of command blocks will now run sequentially when other chains are running nearby.
* Fixed the 'Disconnected from server' prompt being too large on Gear VR.
* [[End Portal (block)|End portals]] and [[End Gateway (block)|end gateway]]s no longer drop themselves as items if they are replaced with water using a bucket.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.14.2]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.14.2]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.2.14.2]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.14.2]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.4 build 5]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.2.14.2]]
[[ru:Beta 1.2.14.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.2.14.2]]