{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.11.0.3.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.11.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>February 28, 2019
|prevparent=1.10.1
|prev=beta 1.11.0.1
|next=beta 1.11.0.4
|nextparent=1.11.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.11.0.3''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0]], released on February 28, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360024397612-Minecraft-Beta-1-11-0-3-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.11.0.3 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=February 28, 2019}}</ref> which adds a [[raid]] bossbar and the {{cmd|mobevent}} command.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Raid]]s'''
* Added raid [[bossbar]].
** Are currently just a placeholder.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|mobevent}}'''
* Enables or disables events such as [[raid]]s, [[wandering trader]] spawn cycles, and [[pillager patrol]]s.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Fletching table]]s, [[smithing table]]s and [[sweet berry bush]]es'''
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Grindstone]]s'''
* Now have the durability of a [[stone slab]].

'''[[Hopper]]s'''
* Can now be used to fill and empty [[composter]]s.

=== Items ===
'''[[Splash water bottle]]s'''
* Can now be used to extinguish [[campfire]]s.

'''[[Sweet berries]]'''
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Cat]]s'''
* Now respawn based on the number of [[bed]]s in the [[village]].
** One cat spawns for every four beds in the village.
** Total caps at 10 cats per village.

'''[[Ravager]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Trader llama]]s'''
* Can no longer be bred.
* Can no longer spawn as baby variants.
* Now spit at mobs that are hostile to their owner.
** Player damage triggers the llama to become aggressive, but does not cause the trader to hide.

'''New [[villager]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.
* Now heal when they wake up in the morning.

'''[[Wandering trader]]s'''
* Now drink an invisibility potion during dusk.
* Now drink an invisibility potion to escape hostile mobs or when struck by projectiles and magic attacks.

'''New [[zombie villager]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Pillager outpost]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* Now generate with [[illager banner]]s.

'''New [[village]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Pillager patrol]]s'''
* Illagers now follow the [[illager captain|patrol captain]].

'''[[Raid]]s'''
* Players can now trigger a raid when entering a village with the [[Bad Omen]] status effect.
** Players receive the Bad Omen status effect when killing an [[illager captain]].
* Raid states are saved and loaded between sessions.
* Ravagers are sometimes ridden by a [[pillager]] or [[vindicator]] when spawning in a raid.
* Raids now use the "dweller component" to track raiders, even when they are unloaded.
* Pillagers, vindicators, [[witch]]es, and [[ravager]]s spawned from a raid move toward their village dictated from the dweller component.

'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* Updated the [[Hero of the Village]] and [[Bad Omen]] effect artwork.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed the crash that would occur when launching the game on Windows 10. ({{bug|MCPE-42317}})
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Using pick block on a nether portal no longer causes the game to crash. ({{bug|MCPE-41735}})
* Giving the player a cobblestone wall variant no longer crashes the game. ({{bug|MCPE-41657}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when signing in or out of Xbox Live on Xbox One.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when resuming gameplay while connected to a server. 
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when trampling on pumpkin and melon stems. 
* Fixed several crashes on Android when suspending and resuming the game.

'''General'''
* Players on Xbox are no longer prompted to sign in to Xbox Live if they have already done so.
* Players can no longer suffocate in the ground while spawning into the world. ({{bug|MCPE-42310}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Players can once again travel through End gateway portals without suffocating and no longer encounter world loading issues. ({{bug|MCPE-41533}}), ({{bug|MCPE-40538}})
* Berry bushes are prickly again. ({{bug|MCPE-41277}}), ({{bug|MCPE-42407}})
* Smooth stone can now be smelted again. ({{bug|MCPE-42331}})
* Smelting smooth stone now gives the player XP. ({{bug|MCPE-41551}})
* Fixed villages not registering beds that have slabs and stairs above them.
* Players using VR controllers no longer fly after swimming. ({{bug|MCPE-39833}})
* Silk touch tools now work correctly right up to their very last use. ({{bug|MCPE-41789}})
* Fixed the pillager and vindicator captains not giving Bad Omen upon death. ({{bug|MCPE-42330}})

'''World generation'''
* More village generation fixes: 
** Lower ladder blocks are no longer missing in structures.
** Basements no longer have broken structures and redundant dirt blocks inside.
** Fixed igloo-like houses that would sometimes not generate correctly.
** Floors no longer have missing blocks.
** Animal pens no longer allow animals to escape.

'''Mobs'''
* Villagers now use available job sites indoors when it rains. 
* Raiders no longer get stuck when trying to path find to a village.
* Illager captains spawned in outposts no longer leave due to patrolling behavior.
* The wandering trader now holds trade interest items the right way up.
* Mobs now rotate correctly after exiting boats. ({{bug|MCPE-41341}})
* Drowned mobs converted from a zombie now attack players.
* Villagers no longer get stuck on lanterns.

'''Blocks'''
* Coral plants and seagrass now break when a supporting block is removed.
* Armor stands and grindstones are now craftable again. ({{bug|MCPE-42350}})
* Smooth and chiseled quartz blocks no longer have directional placement. ({{bug|MCPE-39074}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed a rendering issue on the bell texture.
* Wandering traders no longer have two right feet. 

'''User interface'''
* Items can now be split properly in the inventory and crafting grid. ({{bug|MCPE-42313}})
* The keyboard no longer obscures text entry when writing in a book on Xbox One.

'''Commands'''
* Fixed the command suggestion icons being offset. ({{bug|MCPE-41169}})

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* {{cmd|replaceitem}} now takes selector arguments into account when replacing items in the offhand slot.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.3]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.3]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.11.0.3]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.11.0.3]]
[[ru:Beta 1.11.0.3 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.0.3]]