{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.8.6
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = January 30, 2025
| client = 1.21.70.20
| prevparent = 0.8.0
| prev = 0.8.5
| next = 0.8.7
| nextparent = 0.9.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.8.6''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on January 30, 2025, which adds some technical things and fixes bugs.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/219</ref><ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/33873681034637</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added {{cd|IPropertyPane.addProgressIndicator}} API function to display a spinner or a progress bar property item.
* Added {{cd|ImageAnimationData}} API type to represent a sprite sheet animation for images.
* Added {{cd|iconAnimation: ImageAnimationData}} property to {{cd|IActionBarItemCreationParams}} API.
* Added {{cd|IPropertyPane.addLink}} API function to create link buttons in panes.
* Added {{cd|system.isEditorWorld}} property into {{cd|@minecraft/server}} in {{cd|beta}}.
* Now using {{cd|minecraft/server 2.0.0-beta}}.
** {{cd|registerEditorExtension}} can be called in Early Execution.

== Changes ==
* Block picker search text field will have UI focus when modal opens.
* Line Tool: Left Click no longer clears the line if two points already exist. Left Click now behaves the same as Shift + Left Click and always adds points to the existing line.
* Added cursor support for selecting invisible blocks when the Show Invisible Blocks setting is enabled.

== Fixes ==
* Shulker box's textures are fixed in block picker and lists.
* Fixed a bug that excluded some blocks from block picker list with partial text search.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.8.6]]
[[ru:0.8.6 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.8.6 (Bedrock Editor)]]