{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.11023.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.110.23
| image = Bedrock 1.21.110.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.110.23.png
| build = 35762889
| editorver = 1.0.7
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952111023 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962111023 (x86, 34)<br />
972111023 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982111023 (x86_64, 34)
| date = August 6, 2025
| server = 1.21.110.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''
*[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.110.23.zip Windows]
*[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.110.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.111
| prevparent = 1.21.101
| prev = Preview 1.21.110.22
| next = Preview 1.21.110.24
| nextparent = 1.21.112
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.110.23''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.110.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.111]]{{note|1.21.110 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of 1.21.111.|name=1.21.111}}, released on August 6, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/38609129067789-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-110-23|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.110.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 6, 2025}}</ref> which adds new [[copper]] variant blocks, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Copper Bars]]'''
* Functions like the existing [[iron bar]]s, but can be waxed.
* Crafted from [[copper ingot]]s, and oxidizes over time.
* Sixteen copper bars can be crafted using six [[copper ingot]]s.
{{crafting
|A1= Copper Ingot
|B1= Copper Ingot
|C1= Copper Ingot
|A2= Copper Ingot
|B2= Copper Ingot
|C2= Copper Ingot
|Output = Copper Bars,16
|ignoreusage=1
}}

'''[[Copper Chain]]'''
* Functions like the existing [[iron chain]], but can be waxed.
* Crafted from [[copper ingot]]s and [[copper nugget]]s, and oxidizes over time.
* Copper chains can be crafted using a [[copper ingot]] and two [[copper nugget]]s.
{{crafting
|B1=Copper Nugget
|B2=Copper Ingot
|B3=Copper Nugget
|Output = Copper Chain
|ignoreusage=1
}}

'''[[Copper Lantern]]'''
* Crafted using [[copper nugget]]s and one [[copper torch]].
* The lantern itself oxidizes, changing its look as it ages.
* Can be waxed.
* Functionally identical to the [[lantern]].
{{Crafting
|A1= Copper Nugget
|B1= Copper Nugget
|C1= Copper Nugget
|A2= Copper Nugget
|B2= Copper Torch
|C2= Copper Nugget
|A3= Copper Nugget
|B3= Copper Nugget
|C3= Copper Nugget
|Output= Copper Lantern
|type= Decoration block
|ignoreusage=1
}}

'''[[Copper Torch]]'''
* A green variant of the torch crafted from a [[copper nugget]], [[coal]], and [[stick]].
* Functionally identical to the [[torch]].
{{Crafting
|B1 = Copper Nugget
|B2 = Coal; Charcoal
|B3 = Stick
|Output = Copper Torch
|type = Decoration block
|ignoreusage = 1
}}

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Copper Trapdoor]]'''
* The crafting recipe now uses 4 [[copper ingots]], instead of 6.
* The old recipe is now used by copper bars.
** The above change has not been mentioned in the changelog.
*Crafting still produces 2 trapdoors even though it should produce 1.
{{Crafting
|A1 = Copper Ingot
|B1 = Copper Ingot
|A2 = Copper Ingot
|B2 = Copper Ingot
|Output = Copper Trapdoor,2
|type = Redstone
|ignoreusage = 1
}}

'''[[Copper Golem Statue]]'''
* The statue is now popped when pushed by a [[piston]] like other non-full cube decorative blocks.

'''[[Iron Chain]]'''
* Renamed from "Chain" due to the addition of the copper chain.

'''[[Lightning Rod]]'''
* All lightning rods now flash white when hit by lightning like in {{JE}}.

'''[[Shelf]]''' 
* Interacting with an unpowered shelf while in creative mode now replaces the shelf item with the player's selected item instead of swapping them.
* Items on the shelf have been repositioned to sit on the shelf.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Fox]]'''
* Foxes now consider [[honey bottle]]s to be a food item and will prioritize picking them up the same way it does other food items.

'''[[Copper Golem]]'''
* When leashed the copper golem will no longer try and transport items.
* Reduced the collision box so the copper golem can fit through doors properly like other mobs.

=== General ===
'''[[Accessibility]]'''
* Text to Speech support has been added to all dressing room pages.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Biome]]s'''
* Pre Caves and Cliffs components {{cd|minecraft:overworld_generation_rules}} and {{cd|minecraft:multinoise_generation_rules}} do nothing with biome generation and will return a content error when used in custom biomes.

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Added {{cd|mossy_stone_brick_double_slab}}, {{cd|smooth_quartz_double_slab}}, {{cd|normal_stone_double_slab}}, {{cd|cut_sandstone_double_slab}}, and {{cd|cut_red_sandstone_double_slab}} definitions to {{cd|blocks.json}}.

'''[[Item]]s'''
* All items that can be eaten now have the [[item tag (Bedrock Edition)|tag]] {{cd|minecraft:is_food}}, except {{cd|glow_berries}}.
* Merged the inventory item for the iron chain ({{cd|chain}}) with the direct item form of the iron chain block ({{cd|item.chain}}). The merged item now has the ID {{cd|iron_chain}} (due to the renaming of the chain to iron chain) and has the numeric ID of the former {{cd|item.chain}}.

'''[[Mob]]s'''
* The {{cd|minecraft:shareables}} component now also accepts item entries specifying item tags to name all items tagged as that to become shareable with the given settings.
* Foxes now use the {{cd|minecraft:is_food}} tag instead of listing all foods manually, except {{cd|glow_berries}} which is still listed manually.

'''Molang'''
* Renamed {{cd|query.is_cooldown_type}} to {{cd|query.is_cooldown_category}}, to better reflect what it does.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the Beta APIs [[experimental]] toggle.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Added methods {{cd|setAfterBatchMethod}} and {{cd|setBeforeBatchMethod}} to {{cd|GameTest}}, which can be used to add methods that will be run before and after test batches.
* Added methods to Block scripting API that allows creators to get the total light level and the sky light level at a specific position.
* Added {{cd|InvalidPotionDeliveryTypeError}} and {{cd|InvalidPotionEffectTypeError}} errors to {{cd|beta}}.
* Potions
** Added {{cd|resolve(potionEffectType: PotionEffectType {{!}} T, potionDeliveryType: PotionDeliveryType {{!}} U): ItemStack}} method to {{cd|beta}}.
*** This replaces the {{cd|createPotion(options: PotionOptions): ItemStack}} that was removed from {{cd|ItemStack}}.
** Added {{cd|getAllDeliveryTypes(): PotionDeliveryType[]}} method to {{cd|beta}}.
*** This returns all the potion delivery types.
** Added {{cd|getAllEffectTypes(): PotionEffectType[]}} method to {{cd|beta}}.
*** This returns all the potion effect types.
* {{cd|PotionEffectType}}
** Added {{cd|readonly durationTicks?: number}} property to {{cd|beta}}.
*** This is the number of ticks the effect will last for. Undefined means the effect does not expire.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Removed {{cd|PotionModifierType}} from {{cd|beta}}.
* Removed {{cd|PotionOptions}} from {{cd|beta}}.
* Renamed {{cd|PotionLiquidType}} to {{cd|PotionDeliveryType}} in {{cd|beta}}.
* Potions
** Removed {{cd|getPotionModifierType(potionModifierId: string): PotionModifierType {{!}} undefined}} from {{cd|beta}}.
** Renamed {{cd|getPotionEffectType}} to {{cd|getEffectType}} in {{cd|beta}}.
** Renamed {{cd|getPotionLiquidType}} to {{cd|getDeliveryType}} in {{cd|beta}}.
* {{cd|ItemPotionComponent}}
** Removed {{cd|readonly potionLiquidType: PotionLiquidType}} property in {{cd|beta}}.
** Renamed {{cd|readonly potionLiquidType: PotionLiquidType}} property to {{cd|readonly potionDeliveryType: PotionDeliveryType}} in {{cd|beta}}.
* {{cd|PotionEffectType}}
** Removed {{cd|static createPotion(options: PotionOptions): ItemStack}} method from {{cd|beta}}.
*** This was replaced by {{cd|Potions.resolve}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.110.23 Preview
|;old
|135298|Pick block doesn't work on light blocks.
|177977|Planks and Stone variants haven't been given separate definitions in {{cd|blocks.json}}.
|184856|Fly, swim and entity dismount buttons cannot be hidden using {{cmd|hud}}.
|184858|Horse jump/Camel dash bar cannot be hidden using {{cmd|hud}}.
|186346|Text shadows are missing on action bar background and text background.
|189996|Updating the world causes some loaded unchanged chunks to regenerate incorrectly.
|190430|Secondary material in non-opaque custom blocks may not render.
|223737|Copper chests make stone stepping sounds.
|223837|Copper Golems can include chests they can't pathfind to in their list of 10 chests.
|223857|There's a {{cd|_}} in the file name of {{cd|copper_golem/regular/step4_.fsb}}.
|;dev
|225226|Shelves do not interact with comparators.
|225241|Copper Golem Statue Block Cannot Be Waterlogged.
|225259|One copper golem became 2 statues.
|225471|Wolf Armor not appearing on wolves.
|otherissuescount=8}}
'''Other'''
* Fixed the pose of the statue not always updating in multiplayer and split screen.
* Fixed only unoxidized lightning rods emitting a redstone signal when struck by lightning.
* Fixed not being able to leash copper golems to other entities.
* Fixed position when sitting in boats.
* Fixed the copper golem cloning its item when turning into a statue. <!--(MCPE-225251)-->
* Fixed the copper golem attempting to pathfind to any block below a floating copper chest that is too far for it to open.
* Fixed a bug where custom items' {{cd|menu_category}} {{cd|is_hidden_in_commands}} value was not sent to client and the items would show up in commands' autocomplete when they shouldn't.
* Fixed a bug where the {{cd|minecraft:shareables}} component would mix attributes of duplicated entries in its {{cd|items}} list. E.g. the {{cd|priority}} would be taken from the first duplicated element and the {{cd|max_amount}} from the last, now the first {{cd|matching}} entry will fully shadow those coming after it. Consider this items list in a {{cd|minecraft:shareables}} using the new {{cd|tag}} functionality:<syntaxhighlight lang="json">
"items": [  
  { "item": "minecraft:apple", "priority": 1, "max_amount": 2 },
  { "item": "minecraft:is_food", "priority": 0, "max_amount": 1 }]
</syntaxhighlight> Previously {{cd|minecraft:apple}} would have had {{cd|priority}} 1 but {{cd|max_amount}} 1 instead of 2, now it will correctly use all data from that first item apple entry.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.111 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.110.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.110.23]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.110.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.110.23]]