{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.9027.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.90.27
| image = Bedrock 1.21.90.27.png
| build = 33788401
| editorver = 1.0.0
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952109027 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962109027 (x86, 34)<br />
972109027 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982109027 (x86_64, 34)
| date = May 27, 2025
| server = 1.21.90.27
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.27.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.27.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.90
| prevparent = 1.21.84
| prev = Preview 1.21.90.26
| next = Preview 1.21.90.28
| nextparent = 1.21.91
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.90.27''' (ChromeOS, Android), or '''Preview 1.21.90.27''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the sixth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.90]], released on May 27, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36938170843021-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-27|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.27|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 27, 2025}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Happy Ghast]]'''
* Updated ghastling speed to slow it down.
* The happy ghast's player detection area has been reverted to a single box: it now extends 2 blocks above its top, 1 block below, and 1 block to each side.
* The happy ghast no longer jitters when a player is detected at the edge of its detection area.

=== Graphical ===
'''[[Vibrant Visuals]]'''
* Temporarily reverted weather-related changes to sky color in Vibrant Visuals while some issues are sorted out.

=== Technical ===
'''Blocks'''
* {{cd|alpha_test_to_opaque}}, {{cd|alpha_test_single_sided_to_opaque}}, and {{cd|blend_to_opaque}} will not shift to opaque in the distance.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.90.27 Preview
|;dev
|219640|Mule doesn't adjust facing direction when leashed to a happy ghast.
|219652|Carried Items (Compass, Clock) Do Not Render Direction/Time in Hand.
|220034|Ocelot's lead hold position is offset.
|220035|Allay's lead hold position is incorrect.
|220039|Squid's lead hold position is incorrect.
|220040|Player can not leash other mobs to a glow squid.
|220041|Snow golem's lead hold position is incorrect.
|;prev
|220308|Vibrant Visuals: Everything appears green on Android.
|otherissuescount=6}}
'''Other'''
* Fixed ambient lighting levels in the Nether in Vibrant Visuals.
* Fixed fog settings in warm and humid biomes in Vibrant Visuals.
* Fixed black screen issues on some Android devices when in Vibrant Visuals.
* Fixed items with empty icon textures displaying as garbled pixels when held in hand.
* Fixed the default control schemes for all cameras.
* Fixed the leash attach positions for the parrot and the glow squid.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.90 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.90.27]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.90.27]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.90.27 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.90.27 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.90.27]]