{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.9020.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.90.20
| image = Bedrock 1.21.90.20 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.90.20.png
| build = 32724063
| editorver = 0.9.6
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952109020 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962109020 (x86, 34)<br />
972109020 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982109020 (x86_64, 34)
| date = April 22, 2025
| server = 1.21.90.20
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.90
| prevparent = 1.21.84
| prev = 
| next = Preview 1.21.90.21
| nextparent = 1.21.91
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.90.20''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.90.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.90]], released on April 22, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36030119254925-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-20|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 22, 2025}}</ref> which improves [[lead]] functionality and makes [[Vibrant Visuals]] the default graphics mode on supported devices.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dried Ghast]]'''
* The rarity is now common, matching its ingredients.
* Has been moved from experimental features and is now available during normal gameplay.

=== Items ===
'''[[Lead]]'''
* Using a firework rocket to boost while flying with an elytra now causes leashed mobs to unleash.
* Entities can now be leashed to a pre-existing leash knot by interacting with it.
* Players can retrieve entities tied to a leash knot by interacting with it.
* Shears can now be used to remove leash knots.
* Any leashable entity can now be leashed to any other leashable entity.
** To leash an entity to another entity, the player must:
*** Have the entity already leashed to themselves.
*** Sneak and interact with the target entity while holding the lead.
** Leashed entities can now be "stolen" by leashing them again, transferring ownership to the player.
** If re-leashing an entity would result in immediate leash snapping due to distance, the re-leashing cannot be done.
** To prevent erratic behavior when leashed to each other, llamas that are leashed no longer attempt to form caravans.
** A leashed entity cannot be leashed to itself.
** Baby mobs can only be leashed one way - to another entity; they cannot have other mobs leashed to them.
* When leashed to a happy ghast, horses, camels, donkeys, mules, boats, chest boats, and sniffers now adjust their position gradually over time, aligning smoothly with their leash holder when suspended mid-air.
* In all other cases, entities align to the direction they are being pulled and no longer behave erratically when suspended mid-air.
* Mid-air friction now applies to Boats just like any other entity, meaning they can no longer orbit the player or behave excessively bouncily.
* The distance at which leads break has been increased to 12 blocks, except for the happy ghast, which has a break distance of 16 blocks.
* When the lead is pulled, leashed objects will now orient themselves towards the player who has the lead.
* The distance between centers of entities bounding boxes is used to determine the distance between two leashed entities.
* Boats and large leashable mobs that cannot fit in a boat (horses, donkeys, mules, camels, and sniffers) when leashed to a happy ghast are rendered with four leashes instead of one.
** In this configuration, the happy ghast also features a rope layer wrapping around it.
* Shears can now be used on leashed entities to unleash them, removing both incoming and outgoing leash connections.
* Players cannot cut other players' leashes.
* Dispensers can now use shears to unleash leashed entities.

'''[[Harness]]'''
* Has been moved from experimental features and is now available during normal gameplay.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Happy Ghast]]'''
* The happy ghast now turns more smoothly.
* Harness goggles will now always be down as long as the harnessed Happy Ghast has at least one mounted player.
* Has been moved from experimental features and is now available during normal gameplay.

=== General ===
'''Graphical'''
* Made [[Vibrant Visuals]] the default graphics mode for supported devices.
* Added the ability to data-drive some of the Vibrant Visuals / Deferred Graphics related settings per biome. Creators can provide multiple versions of atmospherics, color grading, lighting and/or water configurations as long as each has a unique {{cd|identifier}} and file name. The reserved JSON names for each group of settings (e.g., {{cd|lighting/global.json}}) will continue to function as before. Creators can utilize the {{cd|minecraft:atmosphere_identifier}}, {{cd|minecraft:color_grading_identifier}}, {{cd|minecraft:lighting_identifier}}, and {{cd|minecraft:water_identifier}} in Client Biome JSONs to connect particular rendering settings to a given biome. Note that certain parameters, such as tone mapping operators, caustics and wave simulation on/off cannot be customized per biome at this time. Parameters will be spatially blended as players move between biomes.
* Increased back-scattering of light underwater in Vibrant Visuals.
* Cloud shadows no longer pop in and out of view when looking around using Vibrant Visuals on Android devices.
* Painting now renders with correct PBR properties, shadows and illumination when using Vibrant Visuals.
* Added MERS texture support for signs in Vibrant Visuals.
* Added new texture assets for a variety of trims, particles, spawn eggs, water and the dark oak boat in Vibrant Visuals.
* Updated the appearance of metals for a variety of block textures in Vibrant Visuals.
* Updated the cave vines, chorus flower, pumpkin, fire fly bush and a variety of other plant textures in Vibrant Visuals.
* Updated the bee, dolphin, ghast, pig saddle and strider textures in Vibrant Visuals.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
*{{cd|@minecraft/server-ui 2.0.0}} is now released, {{cd|2.1.0-beta}} is the new beta version for {{cd|@minecraft/server-ui}}.
*Added integer overflow detection in {{cd|ScoreboardObjective.addScore}}. Original value will be retained when overflow is detected.
*{{cd|NamespaceNameError}} now has better error information and the name property value will now be set to {{cd|NamespaceNameError}}.
*{{cd|BlockComponentPlayerDestroyEvent}} renamed to {{cd|BlockComponentPlayerBreakEvent}}.
*{{cd|PlayerPlaceBlockBeforeEvent}} 
**{{cd|permutationBeingPlaced}} renamed to {{cd|permutationToPlace}}.
*{{cd|BlockCustomComponent}}
**{{cd|onPlayerDestroy}} renamed to {{cd|onPlayerBreak}}.
*Added {{cd|lookAt}} method on {{cd|Entity}}.
*Added {{cd|customComponentParameters: CustomComponentParameters}} to {{cd|ItemCustomComponentInstance}}.
*Added {{cd|customComponentParameters: CustomComponentParameters}} to {{cd|BlockCustomComponentInstance}}.
*Custom components V2 now support assigning string, array, object, bool, or number.
*{{cd|GameMode}} enum member names changed:
**{{cd|survival}} renamed to {{cd|Survival}}.
**{{cd|creative}} renamed to {{cd|Creative}}.
**{{cd|adventure}} renamed to {{cd|Adventure}}.
**{{cd|spectator}} renamed to {{cd|Spectator}}.

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Added a parameter to the culling rules schema to disable culling against full and opaque blocks.
**{{cd|condition}} field is now optional.
**removed {{cd|default}} as a value for {{cd|condition}} field in the culling rules schema.
**added new optional {{cd|cull_against_full_and_opaque}} boolean field in the culling rules schema.
***if not specified, it will be set to {{cd|true}}.
***if set to {{cd|false}} culling against full and opaque blocks will not be considered.
*When custom components v2 experiment is enabled, custom components can be assigned string, array, object, bool, or number:
<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
"components": {  
    "example_namespace:example_component": "foo",    "example_namespace:example_component2": 4,    "example_namespace:example_component3": [        "hello",        "world"    ],    "example_namespace:example_component4": true,    "example_namespace:example_component5": {        "stuff": 4    },}
</syntaxhighlight>
*Custom components v2 experiment no longer required to use custom components v2.
*Custom components v2 is available in JSON versions 1.21.90 and higher
*{{cd|minecraft:custom_components}} deprecated in 1.21.90.
*The {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} component will no longer produce a content error if the {{cd|*}} material is missing.

'''[[Commands]]'''
*Added integer overflow detection in {{cmd|scoreboard players operation}} for +=, -=, *=, /= and %=. Original value will be retained when overflow is detected.

'''Components'''
*Added the {{cd|minecraft:remove_in_peaceful}} component:
**Determines whether an entity should despawn on "Peaceful" difficulty
*Content warnings will log missing texture references for {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} block component.
*Added the {{cd|minecraft:leashable_to}} component:
**Allows players to leash entities to the owner entity, retrieve those already leashed, or free them using shears.
**Players can leash entities to the owner entity by sneaking and interacting while having entities leashed to themselves.
**The {{cd|can_retrieve_from}} field determines whether players can retrieve entities leashed to the owner entity.
*Added new fields to the {{cd|minecraft:leashable}} component:
**{{cd|can_be_cut}}: Determines whether players can cut both incoming and outgoing leashes by using shears on the entity.
**{{cd|spring_type}}: A {{cd|presets}} subfield that defines the type of spring-like force pulling the entity toward its leash holder.
***Available values:
****{{cd|bouncy}}: Simulates a highly elastic spring that never reaches equilibrium if the leashed entity is suspended mid-air.
****{{cd|dampened}}: Simulates a dampened spring attached to the front of the leashed entity’s collision that reaches equilibrium if the entity is suspended mid-air and aligns with its movement direction.
****{{cd|quad_dampened}}: Simulates four dampened springs connected to the center of each side of the entity's collision that reaches equilibrium if the entity is suspended mid-air and gradually aligns with the leash holder over time.
**{{cd|rotation_adjustment}}: A {{cd|presets}} subfield that adjusts the rotation at which the entity reaches equilibrium.

'''Entity Components'''
*Added {{cd|minecraft:body_rotation_always_follows_head}} entity component:
**Ensures the entity's body is always aligned with the head.
**Does not override the {{cd|minecraft:body_rotation_blocked}} component.

'''[[Experiments]]'''
*Custom Components v2 experiment removed. Custom Components v2 is enabled when using {{cd|@minecraft/server}} version {{cd|2.0.0}} and above.

'''[[Item]]s'''
*When using Custom Components v2, custom components can be assigned string, array, object, bool, or number:
<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
"components": {  
    "example_namespace:example_component": "foo",    "example_namespace:example_component2": 4,    "example_namespace:example_component3": [        "hello",        "world"    ],    "example_namespace:example_component4": true,    "example_namespace:example_component5": {        "stuff": 4    },}
</syntaxhighlight>
*Custom components v2 experiment no longer required to use custom components v2.
*Custom components v2 is available in JSON versions 1.21.90 and higher
*{{cd|minecraft:custom_components}} deprecated in 1.21.90.

'''Network Protocol'''
*Added {{cd|ActorFlags::BODY_ROTATION_ALWAYS_FOLLOWS_HEAD}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Locator Bar" experimental toggles.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
:{{cd|@minecraft/server 2.1.0-beta}}
*Added class {{cd|PlayerHotbarSelectedSlotChangeAfterEvent}}. This will be triggered every time the hotbar slot changes.
*Added enum {{cd|PlayerInventoryType}}.
*Added class {{cd|PlayerInventoryItemChangeAfterEvent}}. This will be triggered every time an item changes in the player's inventory. This includes the 27 inventory slots and 9 for hotbar.
*Added {{cd|stopSound}} and {{cd|stopAllSounds}} to {{cd|Dimension}} and {{cd|Player}}.

:{{cd|@minecraft/debug-utilities 1.0.0-beta}}
*Added new Debug Drawing feature:
**Added new classes: {{cd|DebugArrow}}, {{cd|DebugBox}}, {{cd|DebugCircle}}, {{cd|DebugDrawer}}, {{cd|DebugLine}}, {{cd|DebugShape}}, {{cd|DebugSphere}}, {{cd|DebugText}}.  
**Added new global object for accessing and using this new feature: {{cd|debugDrawer: DebugDrawer}}.

=== Changes ===
==== General ====
'''UI'''
*The jump and dash bars no longer take precedence over the locator bar while inactive in Creative Mode.
* The interaction button in Creative Mode is now moved up for Touch devices so that it no longer covers the locator bar.
*Player dots on the locator bar now show correctly while using split-screen.
*The item name tooltip is no longer cut off while the locator bar is enabled in Creative Mode.
*Player dots on the locator bar now show correctly in third person view while using split-screen.

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
*Custom command registration will create an alias from the command name without the namespace.  
**If the name has already been claimed, then the alias will not be created and a content log warning will appear.
*Removed unused classes: {{cd|EntityIterator}}, {{cd|EntityTypeIterator}}, {{cd|FilterGroup}}, and {{cd|PlayerIterator}}.
*Updated class {{cd|Container}}:
**{{cd|reverseFind}} has been renamed to {{cd|findLast}}.  
**{{cd|contains}} now returns undefined if it fails to find the item.  
**{{cd|firstEmptySlot}} now returns undefined if it fails to find an empty slot. 
**{{cd|firstItem}} now returns undefined if it fails to find the item.  
**{{cd|find}} now returns undefined if it fails to find the item.  
**{{cd|reverseFindnow}} returns undefined if it fails to find the item.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.90.20 Preview
|;old
|79331|Text Background Opacity doesn't work for most text
|80066|Crimson and warped roots can be lit on fire and burn
|88837|Piglin brutes do not despawn in Peaceful mode
|181002|Trident isn't grouped next to tools/weapons in the creative tab
|184566|{{cmd|playsound}} leaks across dimensions
|187171|Bundle tootip was overlaps with the item tooltip
|189370|Pressing up on the left thumbstick or D-pad while in the Graphics Mode dropdown menu takes the user to the top of the Video Settings menu
|190647|Item breathing animation is not smooth when a world's Days Played count is high
|191029|Block breaking animations do not stop after pausing the game
|194367|The top layer of the Snowy Kingdom Preset uses full snow blocks instead of snow layers
|199213|New items added in 1.21.80.25 preview have extra spaces in their names
|201851|Happy ghast can be pushed too easily
|212378|Baby Happy Ghast does not grow up naturally
|otherissuescount=15}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed a bug where directional lighting cut out 8 blocks under the water surface while using Vibrant Visuals.
*Non-waterlogged Dried Ghast blocks now only play ambient sounds when on top of a Soul Sand or a Soul Soil block.
*Fixed an issue where jungle leaves did not become transparent when setting all leaf types to be transparent.
*Fixed a crash that would sometimes occur when using command blocks.
*Players mounted on the Happy Ghast no longer appear invisible to other players when the Happy Ghast is immobile.
*Players mounted on the Happy Ghast no longer have their hitbox displaced when the Happy Ghast is immobile.
*Happy Ghast no longer becomes a platform when a Player is standing next to it.
*Fixed a bug where piloted Happy Ghast could be moved while non-riding players were standing on it.
*Fixed a bug where Happy Ghast would keep looking at you after no longer being tempted.
*Bundle UI now correctly disappears when switching Inventory tabs with controller input.
*Tapping on the Bundles Tooltip on Touch devices no longer interacts with the UI behind it.
*Fixed an issue where only changing the access of PlayStation friends to your world would not be saved when exiting the menu.
*Fixed incorrect warnings for using valid older block ids with {{cd|minecraft:block_placer}} component.
*Fixed {{cd|query.health}} in resource packs to return 0 for the Wither once it has died.
*Fixed the Nether having overworld fog in Vibrant Visuals.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.90 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.90.20]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.90.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.90.20]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.90.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.90.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.90.20]]