{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.15.0.51.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.15.51.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.15.51.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.15.0.51<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' February 12, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|next=beta 1.15.0.53
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.15.0.51''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.15.0 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16.0]]<ref>{{tweet|Chupacaubrey|1239595265264238593}}</ref>}} released on February 12, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360039727011|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.15.0.51 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=February 12, 2020}}</ref> which adds several features from {{els|java|education}} and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Allow]] and [[Deny]] blocks'''
* Can be obtained by {{cmd|give}} again.

'''[[Border]] blocks'''
* Can be obtained by {{cmd|give}} again.

=== Items ===
'''[[Arrow of Slowness]] IV'''
* Can be crafted by tipping arrow to [[cauldron]] filled by [[potion of Slowness]] IV.

'''[[Lingering Potion of Slowness]] IV'''
* Can be brewed by adding glowstone dust to regular lingering potion of slowness.

'''[[Potion of Slowness]] IV'''
* Can be brewed by adding [[glowstone dust]] to regular potion of slowness.

'''[[Splash Potion of Slowness]] IV'''
* Can be brewed by adding glowstone dust to regular splash potion of slowness.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchantments]]'''
* Added [[Curse of Binding]].

'''[[Emotes]]'''
* Hidden base code added. Currently can only be activated by external programs or add-ons.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]s'''
* The beam color can now be mixed with several different stained glass colors.

'''[[Conduit]]s'''
* Now give [[Conduit Power]] to nearby players in rain.

'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* No longer require a fully repaired [[bow]] to be crafted.

'''[[Fence gate]]s, [[pumpkin]]s and [[jack o'lantern]]s'''
* Can now be placed without supporting blocks underneath.

'''[[Flower pot]]s'''
* Potted plants can now be removed from the pot by tapping/clicking on it.

'''[[Iron bar]]s'''
* Changed the inventory icon to match {{el|je}}.

'''[[Structure block]]s'''
* Added detect button for save mode.
* Functionality is no longer only available behind [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Sapling]]s'''
* Oak and birch saplings grown within 2 blocks of a [[flower]] on the same Y-level have a 5% chance to have a [[bee nest]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Item (entity)|Item]]s'''
* Dropped items now turn into a 3D model and spin.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Iron golem]]s'''
* Improved spawn rates.

'''[[NPC]]'''
* Dialog and changeable skins have been readded.

'''[[Passive mob]]s'''
* Now spawn on blocks they are supposed to. ({{bug|MCPE-47596}})

'''[[Pufferfish]]'''
* Now semi-puff when a player approaches, and fully puff when a player is very nearby.

'''[[Wolf]]'''
* Now spawn in [[forest]] and [[giant tree taiga]] biomes. ({{bug|MCPE-49792}})

=== World generation ===
'''[[Tree]]s'''
* Large spruce trees now transform nearby [[grass]] blocks into [[podzol]] when they grow.

=== General ===
'''[[Character creator]]'''
* Player in dressing room now has animations.
* Added a new cape: [[The Pan Cape!]].

'''[[Particles]]'''
* Changed the particles of the [[eye of ender]] to match {{el|je}}.
* Changed the particles of [[Bad Omen]] from tan to green to match {{el|je}}.

'''Map making and [[add-ons]]'''
* Most attack goals are now data-driven.
* Added new documentation for new behavior fields.
* Most slime and swim goals are now data-driven.
** Added new documentation for new behavior fields.
* Tree generation is now data-driven.
* Wither skull attacks are now data-driven.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when clicking 'Read More' on certain resource pack screens. 
* Fixed an issue with invisible shulker boxes which could cause a crash when trying to open or break them. ({{bug|MCPE-55894}})
* Fixed a crash that could happen when dispensing bone meal into a grass block. ({{bug|MCPE-53033}})
* Fixed a crash caused by fire spreading to beehives.

'''Accessibility'''
* Fixed a bug that could cause the narrator to read text twice on Xbox One.

'''Gameplay'''
* Added the missing text for locked maps in the cartography table. ({{bug|MCPE-58527}})
* Players can transition from swimming to running on land more smoothly now.
* Casting a fishing rod whilst running no longer slows the player down. ({{bug|MCPE-56199}})
* The 'Sound the Alarm' achievement is now only triggered by hostile mobs and not players.
* The player's hitbox is now correctly reset when unequipping elytra mid-flight.
* The correct amount of berries can now consistently be collected from sweet berry bushes. ({{bug|MCPE-47160}})
* Using shift/sneak will now allow the player to move downwards correctly when swimming.
* Fixed the respawn location so that players no longer wake up with their head in a block after sleeping.
* The raid bar will now appear correctly when returning to an active raid from another dimension.
* Fixed a bug that would prevent redstone power from passing through barrels after reloading a world. ({{bug|MCPE-46742}})
* Falling blocks (such as sand) will no longer break when falling onto retracted pistons. ({{bug|MCPE-20109}})
* TNT no longer drops as an item when exploded.
* Fixed trapdoor collision shape. ({{bug|MCPE-13451}})
* Prevented elytra gliding rotations on the player when in first person view ({{bug|MCPE-53092}})
* Explosions can now deal damage in water
* Flying with elytra at high speeds no longer causes sound to become jittery. ({{bug|MCPE-19945}}, {{bug|MCPE-52931}})
* Mobs are now damaged and items are destroyed when on top of cactus blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-14303}})

'''Mobs'''
* Increased Iron Golem spawn rate and modified spawn rules. ({{bug|MCPE-47157}})
* Fixed the jumping animation of tamed horses.
* Fixed Blaze path-finding and navigation. ({{bug|MCPE-45469}})
* Fixed a bug that allowed ghasts to exist when the difficulty was set to Peaceful. ({{bug|MCPE-53383}})
* Fixed an issue that was preventing pillager captains from being hostile. ({{bug|MCPE-44987}})
* Fixed an issue that was allowing fish to spawn in flowing water above ice blocks.
* Small mobs will no longer get trapped in gaps created by stair blocks.
* Villagers no longer run around inside their houses when being raided.
* Mobs no longer start shaking when entering minecarts.
* Guardians and elder guardians will no longer float in the air as they try and reach water. ({{bug|MCPE-33641}})
* Tweaked squid spawn rate and cap.
* Drowned can no longer drop tridents without having them equipped. ({{bug|MCPE-32731}})
* Fixed a bug that prevented cats from sleeping on a bed with the player
* Snow golems can now try and shoot snowballs at mobs when it is behind a fence block ({{bug|MCPE-24840}})
* Fixed a bug that allowed zombie villagers to break iron doors. ({{bug|MCPE-43725}})
* Sitting mobs will no longer slide around and breed. ({{bug|MCPE-62160}})

'''Items'''
* Unloaded crossbows no longer display the incorrect icon in inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-53545}})

'''Graphical'''
* Stopped offhand shield animation and bow animation from playing at the same time. ({{bug|MCPE-41262}})
* Fixed a bug that was preventing the cubemap from rendering correctly on Xbox One consoles. 
* Items held by baby foxes now render correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-52885}})
* Stained glass now has the correct colors on maps. ({{bug|MCPE-25702}})
* Enchanted elytra will now show the enchanted glow when equipped. ({{bug|MCPE-23020}})

'''User interface'''
* Fixed a bug that could sometimes prevent the loading screen tips from showing correctly
* Entities and blocks are now shown consistently in the structure block's preview.
* The tooltip for leaving a boat is now consistent across platforms.
* The "grow" controller tooltip will now show when pointing bone meal at grass block or blocks underwater.

'''Commands'''
* Updated the grammar in the {{cmd|scoreboard}} command description to make it consistent with other commands.
* Instant effects now use ticks instead of seconds when used with the {{cmd|effect}} command. ({{bug|MCPE-43393}})

'''Add-ons'''
* Implemented a fix to ensure the player's mount updates all riders to ensure consistent smooth rotation for all riders.
* The {{cd|delayed_attack}} behavior no longer causes mobs to freeze when they lose their target.
* Item tags can now be toggled in the UI using {{cmd|gamerule showtags}}.
* The {{cd|on_unleash}} event is now triggered correctly when unleashing from a fence.
* The 'Create New World' button text is now using the global color component.

'''Character creator '''
* Fixed an issue that could cause the wings costume piece to disappear with certain hairstyles.
* Fixed the default player model to overcome some texture issues that could be seen when choosing different heights and sizes in the character creator.
* Various user interface fixes.
* The Achievements screen can now be viewed through the character creator dressing room.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
<references group="fn"/>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.51]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.51]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.15.0.51]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.51]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.15.0.51]]
[[ru:Beta 1.15.0.51 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock beta 1.15.0.51]]
[[zh:基岩版1.15.0.51]]