{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.5025.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.50.25<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.21.50.25 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.50.25.png
| build = 28672696
| editorver = 0.7.6
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952105065 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962105065 (x86, 34)<br />
972105065 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982105065 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = October 23, 2024
| server = 1.21.50.25
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.25.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.25.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.50
| prevparent = 1.21.44
| prev = Preview 1.21.50.24
| next = Preview 1.21.50.26
| nextparent = 1.21.51
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.50.25''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.50.25''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the fourth beta and third ''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50]], released on October 23, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31291872110733-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-50-25|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.50.25|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 23, 2024}}</ref><ref>{{mcnet|minecraft-preview-1-21-50-25|Minecraft Preview 1.21.50.25|October 23, 2024|Jay Wells}}</ref> which adds the [[resin]] family of blocks, a new flower and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Resin]] block family'''
*[[Resin clump]]s are a new multi-face block:
**Dropped by the creaking heart when it is destroyed.
**Placed around the creaking heart when its creaking is attacked.
**Can be crafted into a [[block of resin]].
**Can be hardened into [[resin brick]] items in a furnace.
**Can be used to trim armor.
*Resin bricks can be crafted into the resin brick set:
**[[Resin Bricks|Resin brick block]]
**[[Resin brick stairs]]
**[[Resin brick wall]]
**[[Resin brick slab]]
**[[Chiseled resin bricks]]
*Both can be found in chests in the woodland mansion.
*Blocks of resin can be crafted into a creaking heart using two pale oak logs.

'''[[Eyeblossom]]'''
*Eyeblossoms are new flowers that generate in the pale garden biome.
**They exist in two variants: closed and open.
**Eyeblossoms transition between the two variants based on the time of day.
***During the night, eyeblossoms will become open.
***During the day, they will become closed.
**In dimensions that do not have a day/night cycle, they will remain as-is.
**Eyeblossoms planted on the ground will communicate with each other, helping each other to open or close.
**Open eyeblossoms have glowing eyes during the night.
**Eyeblossoms can be obtained by bonemealing the grass in the pale garden biome or bonemealing an existing eyeblossom.
**[[Bees]] get poisoned when they interact with eyeblossoms.
**[[Suspicious stew]] made from eyeblossom will have blindness or nausea effect depending on the variant.
**[[Gray Dye|Gray]] or [[orange dye]] can be crafted from closed and open eyeblossoms respectively.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Creaking Heart]]'''
*Naturally generated creaking Hearts now drop 20 to 24 experience, even when collected with [[silk touch]].
*Increased frequency of the creaking heart ambience sound.

'''[[Kelp]]'''
*Removed the unintended darker tinting of kelp.

'''[[Pale Oak Sign]] and [[Pale Oak Hanging Sign]] '''
*The textures of the pale oak sign and pale oak hanging sign items have been adjusted for consistency with other signs.

'''[[Slate]]'''
*Have accidentally been added to the [[creative inventory]].<ref>{{bug|MCPE-187696|MCPE-187696|'''{{Font color|Red|Known Issue}}:''' Slate appears in Creative Inventory with Education toggle off}}</ref><ref>{{bug|MCPE-187753|MCPE-187753|'''{{Font color|Red|Known Issue}}:''' Slate is covered by missing texture in Education Edition}}</ref>

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Creaking]]'''
*Increased the speed of aggravated creakings.
*Creakings now deal more attack damage {{hp|3}}.
*When a creaking heart is destroyed, its creaking will now twitch for a few seconds before crumbling.
*Creakings spawned by a creaking heart will crumble when stuck in a hole with a [[player]] for more than 5 seconds.
**This prevents a potential soft lock, as the invulnerable creaking would prevent the player from mining or placing any blocks, requiring them to exit and re-enter the world to force the creaking to despawn.
*A Creaking crumbling now causes nearby [[sculk catalyst]]s to bloom.
**However, no sculk will be placed since the creaking does not drop any XP.
*The creaking's walking animation has been updated.
*The creaking's attack animation has been updated.
*A creaking spawned by a creaking heart no longer avoids damaging blocks.
*A creaking spawned by command or [[spawn egg]] is no longer invulnerable to fire and lava.
*A creaking spawned by command or spawn egg now avoids damaging blocks.

=== General ===
'''UI'''
*Second passenger in a boat or camel will now also have the warning message when hitting unloaded chunk.
*Removed opt-out option from Realms Stories settings, now that it is in the timeline tab instead.
*The size of shield items no longer changes when the item is moved between slots.
*Bundles that are moved under a player's cursor now correctly update their tooltip.
*It is now possible to collect crafting output with a bundle to add the crafted items to the bundle.
*Remove "X" closing button from the [[command block]] UI when player is using gamepad.
*A popup now appears showing the item's name when it is selected in a bundle's tooltip on touch screen devices.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Pale Garden]]'''
*Further adjusted the color of the pale garden sky at the horizon to more closely match {{JE}}.
*Increased frequency of the pale hanging moss ambience sound.
*Pale hanging moss no longer generates on pale oak trees grown from pale oak saplings.

'''[[Trial Chambers]]'''
*Changed contents of chest in {{cd|end_2}} to reference a loot table.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
*Added additional optional arguments of {{cd|name}} and {{cd|parentThemeId}} to {{cd|addNewTheme()}}. When a valid {{cd|parentThemeId}} has been passed through the function, the newly created theme would inherit all the theme color properties from the parent.

'''Entity Components'''
*Removed the {{cd|minecraft:can_attack_ghast}} component and replaced it with a new component {{cd|minecraft:cannot_be_attacked}}. When added to an entity it prevents other entities from attacking it unless they fulfill an exception filter, in vanilla it is added to [[ghast]]s, creators can add their entities to the exception filter allowing them to then attack ghasts.

'''Entity Event Responses'''
*The {{cd|execute_event_on_home_block}} entity event response is now marked as {{cd|[Beta]}} and requires {{cd|use_beta_features}} to be specified in the root JSON object.
*Added the {{cd|emit_particle}} entity event response, allowing particles to be emitted at the center of the entity's bounding box.
**The {{cd|particle}} field allows to specify the type of particle to emit.

'''Network Protocol'''
*Level event removed: {{cd|ParticleCreakingTeardown}}.
*New particle type added: {{cd|CreakingCrumble}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", and "Aim Assist" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[Commands/camera|Camera]]'''
*Added experimental toggle "Aim Assist" to allow easy targeting while using custom camera perspectives.
**Aim assist currently targets blocks. Entities will be enabled in a future release.
*Aim assist can be enabled through {{cd|/aimassist}} command.
**Aim assist's targeting behavior (distance, width, and height) can be configured through the settings under {{cd|aim_assist}} folder using a behavior pack.
**Aim assist will highlight the selected target. The highlighting textures are customizable through textures under {{cd|textures\ui}} folder using a resource pack.

'''[[API]]'''
*Added {{cd|shutdown}} event to {{cd|beforeEvents}} within the {{cd|system}} class. This is fired after all players have left and the world is about to shutdown/close.
*Input APIs
**Added a suite of input APIs that are readable even if the player's input is disabled with input permissions
**Added {{cd|getMovementVector(): Vector2}} to {{cd|InputInfo}} to read raw movement values
**Added enum {{cd|InputButton}} with values {{cd|Jump}} and {{cd|Sneak}}
**Added enum {{cd|ButtonState}} with values {{cd|Pressed}} and {{cd|Released}}
**Added {{cd|getButtonState(button: InputButton): ButtonState}} to {{cd|InputInfo}} to read raw player button inputs
**Added {{cd|world.afterEvents.playerButtonInput}} event to listen to button change events

'''Creator Options'''
*Added section "Device Info Settings".
**Added option to allow override memory tier used in Scripting and [[Molang]].

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.50.25 Preview
|;old
|62132|Grass blocks under hoppers turn into dirt blocks.
|120237|Player world spawn is sometimes underwater.
|169713|The kelp has a dark color.
|180023|Parity: Breeze idle sounds do not play correctly.
|182930|Shulker boxes do not have their color in their name.
|183512|Wind charges that are on fire don't ignite TNT and TNT minecarts.
|184404|Player can interact with the world while customizing controls.
|185236|Pressing fly up and fly down in quick succession causes player to stop flying in the D-Pad control scheme.
|185237|Player can't stop flying by double tapping fly up in the joystick control schemes.
|186928|Chunks in all dimensions have their biome replaced with an Ocean biome upon reloading in updated older worlds created prior to <1.17.40.
|186979|Tools in your hotbar once again do the popup animation when durability decreases.
|187287|Wet sponge blocks have no sound.
|;previous
|187306|Pale oak sign UI is inconsistent with pale oak sign entity.
|187309|Creaking attack speed doesn't match Java Edition.
|187322|Trees cannot grow on pale moss blocks.
|187327|Pale hanging moss uses vine sounds instead of moss sounds.
|187395|Creaking Heart has inconsistent and miscolored pixels.
|187457|Pale oak saplings cannot be composted.
|187519|Pale Garden fog is still not in parity with Java Edition.
|otherissuescount=7}}
'''Other'''
*Grass and nylium no longer decay to dirt and netherrack when below slime, honey, hopper, or chemical heat (''Education Edition'' block).
*Grass and nylium now decay to dirt and netherrack when below observer.
*The camera now rotates the correct way around the X and Y axes when using the {{cmd|/camera}} command
*Using an empty bundle now causes an animation to play in both first and third person.
*Fixed a bug where blocks could be duplicated on chunk boundaries in the End.
*Fixed an issue where players were unable to create a new world on an active Realm.
*Fixed an issue that caused IP addresses with bad input to not be properly validated before joining an external server in the New Servers Tab (''Preview'' only).</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.50.25]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.50.25]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.50.25 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.50.25]]