{{Infobox version
|title=v1.12.0
|vernum=1.12
|image=Bedrock 1.12.0.png
|edition=Bedrock
|date=
'''iOS, Fire OS, Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Gear VR, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch:''' July 9, 2019<br>
'''Android:''' July 10, 2019
|server=1.12.0.28
|internal='''Windows 10''': 1.12.28.0
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.12.0.28.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.12.0.28.zip Linux]
|prevparent=1.11.0
|prev=1.11.4
|next=1.12.1
|nextparent=1.13.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/1.12 releases}}

'''1.12.0''' is a major update to {{el|be}} released on July 9–10, 2019.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360030428752|title=Minecraft 1.12.0 (Bedrock)|date=July 9, 2019}}</ref> This update mostly focuses on map-making features by re-adding the [[camera]], adding new [[game rule]]s and command-related features, and expanding [[add-on]] mechanics.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table|Camera}}

=== Items ===
'''[[Camera]]'''
* Has been re-added.
** Can only be obtained with the {{cmd|give}} command.
* Only as an item form, not as an entity.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Command]]s'''
* Added several new commands related to add-ons and mapmaking.

'''[[Game rule]]s'''
* Added {{code|spawnradius}} gamerule.
** Allows players to specify a radius circle for players to spawn in.
* Added {{code|sendcommandblockfeedback}} gamerule.
** Are related to delay option for commands.

'''[[Namespace]]s'''
* Added {{cd|minecraft:}} prefix for {{cmd|give}} to separate vanilla items  and add-on items.

'''[[World options]]'''
* Added a new "Respawn Radius" option in the game settings.

'''{{cmd|particle}}'''
* Added new particles:
** {{cd|minecraft:dragon_death_explosion_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:underwater_torch_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:dragon_destroy_block}}
** {{cd|minecraft:dragon_dying_explosion}}
** {{cd|minecraft:enchanting_table_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_concrete_powder_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_scaffolding_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_gravel_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_red_sand_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_sand_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_top_snow_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:huge_explosion_lab_misc_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:ice_evaporation_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:knockback_roar_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:lab_table_heatblock_dust_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:lab_table_misc_mystical_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:mob_block_spawn_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:note_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:obsidian_glow_dust_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:phantom_trail_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:stunned_emitter}}

=== General ===
'''Dedicated servers'''
* Enabled content logging on [[Bedrock Dedicated Server]]s.

'''Item IDs'''
* Item instance IDs can now be synchronized between clients and servers.

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added new splash texts:<ref>{{tweet|RyFol|1123803127461941248|All the new Splashes added in the 1.12.0.3 Beta update. More than i would have expected. Also. Mum. They spelt it the correct way 😅|2 May 2019}}</ref>
** "All blocks covered!"
** "feedback.minecraft.net"
** "It came from space."
** "Rainbow turtle?"
** "Something funny!"
** "I need more context."
** "Ahhhhhh!"
** "Don't worry, be happy!"
** "Water bottle!"
** "What's the question?"
** "Plant a tree!"
** "Go to the dentist!"
** "What do you expect?"
** "Look mum, I'm in a splash!"

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bamboo]] and [[seagrass]]'''
* Updated their texture brightness to match {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-42635}}, {{bug|MCPE-34795}})

'''[[Barrel]]s'''
* Now have their own section in the [[Creative]] inventory, instead of under the chests category. ({{bug|MCPE-43946}})

'''[[Cartography table]]s and [[lectern]]s'''
* Adjusted and added UI tooltips for both blocks.

'''[[Command block]]s'''
* Added auto complete to command blocks.
* Added a delay option to command blocks.
** A delay can be added to the command block using the new field. The ticks for this delay are in redstone ticks.

'''[[Structure block]]s'''
* Now have an outline when placed.

=== Items ===
'''[[Golden apple]]s and [[enchanted golden apple]]s'''
* Now have rarity tooltips.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Illager captain]]s'''
* Converting a normal pillager to a captain with the tag command now displays the banner correctly.
* Now drop banners correctly even if the world is reloaded.
* The [[Bad Omen]] effect is now only received when killing an illager captain, and not when dealing non-fatal damage with a [[bow]] or damage potion.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Villager [[trading]] UI no longer opens and closes if the player is standing too far away.
* Clerics can now correctly pathfind to their job sites.
* Fletchers now sell 16 [[arrow]]s instead of 5.
* Butchers now sell 5 [[cooked rabbit]] for 1 [[emerald]] instead of 5.
* Leatherworkers now sell 1 [[saddle]] for 6 emeralds instead of 10.
* Toolsmiths now sell 1 [[diamond hoe]] for 4 emeralds instead of 9.
* Villagers that are actively trading with players no longer run and hide if the [[raid]] bell rings.
* Added a sound to indicate when a villager does not want to trade, such as during a raid.
* Cured villagers now keep the jobs they had before becoming a [[zombie]].

'''[[Wandering trader]]s and [[zombie villager]]s'''
* Added new sounds.

=== General ===
* Improved performance.
* Changed the [[chat]] font to Segoe UI.

'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* New items can now be added with add-ons.
* Mob events can now be enabled and disabled in world templates.
* Animations and particles can be added without being linked to entities.
* Inventory, armor, and hand containers can be adapted through scripting.
* Sound effects can now be triggered by animation events.
* Added new executeCommand to the Scripting API.
* Added Scripting events for interaction with items, for example:
** Item picked up
** Item dropped
** Carried item changed
* Added One-shot animation support, allowing the ability to execute a single animation on an entity.
* Particle emitters can now trigger scripting events.
* Updated documentation of actor events, to document client-side usage of actor events in resource packs.
* "Add block" components now use JSON schemas.
* Added a screen to view content log errors.
** The log screen can be opened using {{key|Ctrl}}+{{key|H}}, or by going to Settings and then Profile.
* Added code to allow static validation scripts to be run locally.
* Custom blocks can now be added through Scripting.
** This is currently still a "work in progress" feature, and more functionality will be added in future updates.
* Custom blocks can currently only be added through additional JSON scripting.
** Custom blocks can only be placed with slash commands.
* Added new data-driven particles:
** Llama Spit 
** Large Explosions 
** Colored Flames 
** Redstone Dust
** Falling Dust 
** Lava 
** Enchanting Table 
** Conduit 
* Added new data-driven animations:
** Wolves 
** Fang Attack 
** Arrows 
** Shulker Bullets 
** Bows 
** Water  
* Updated documentation to include a breaking changes section
* Basic item related events have been exposed to the scripting API. This includes:
** {{cd|actor_acquired_item|actor_carried_item_changed|actor_dropped_item|actor_use_item|actor_equipped_armor|delimiter=list}}
* Basic inventory events have been exposed to the scripting API. This includes:
** {{cd|inventory_container|armor_container|hand_container|hotbar_container|delimiter=list}}
* New block events and two new APIs have been included to query for blocks. This includes:
** APIs
** {{cd|getBlock(Ticking Area, x, y, z)|getBlock(Ticking Area, PositionObject)|getBlocks(Ticking Area, x min, y min, z min, x max, y max, z max)|getBlocks(Ticking Area, Minimum PositionObject, Maximum PositionObject)|delimiter=list}}
** Events:
*** {{cd
|delimiter=list|list-level=***
|block_destruction_started|block_destruction_stopped|piston_moved_block|player_destroyed_block|player_placed_block|executeCommand API}}
** Allows the scripting API to get the result of a slash command.
* Event data API:
** Allows creators to create event data, register and pass it to the event function.
* Updated demo pack.
* Biome generation is now customizable via behavior packs.

'''Music'''
* Now still plays when the keyboard is being used.

'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* The "Store" button has been renamed to "Marketplace".
* The [[Village & Pillage]] panorama should now properly appear instead of [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0|1.8.0]] or [[Update Aquatic]].

'''[[Realms]]'''
* Realm owners can now set relevant permissions for players invited to their Realm.
** Default settings can be set for all new members entering a Realm.
** The owner can set permissions for an invited player to either visitor, member or operator.
** When resetting a world, or uploading a new world, already set permissions stay in place.

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Removed the following splashes:
** "[snapshot intensifies]!"
** "There's no stopping the Trollmaso."

'''[[Sound]]s'''
* Increased the frequency and volume of the ambient mob sounds made during raids, to make them easier to locate.

'''Player positioning'''
* The player's position now adjusts to the gap they are within:
** 1.5 blocks: sneaking posture
** <1 block: swimming animation
* Being forced into an area under two blocks high causes the player to adopt the appropriate posture.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game on some Windows 10 devices.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when certain interactive blocks are loading in when joining a Realm (e.g. beds, chests, furnaces).
* Fixed a crash that could occur when switching players on Xbox One.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when engaging in a fight with an elder guardian in an ocean monument.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading the game.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when throwing an egg or snowball. ({{bug|MCPE-40435}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trading with a villager.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when throwing a trident with Loyalty enchantment.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Nintendo Switch when the game was saving or loading. ({{bug|MCPE-45862}})
* Fixed a crash on Nintendo Switch that could occur when suspending and resuming the game.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when exiting the game.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when signing into Xbox Live.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when choosing a skin on the first launch of the game.
* Fixed a Marketplace issue that could result in the game getting stuck or crashing when loading in items.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when the game was checking for previously downloaded content.

'''Performance'''
* Made further performance improvements when opening inventory screens. ({{bug|MCPE-27167}})
* Made several performance improvements related to various UI screens and interactions.
* Significantly reduced bandwidth usage by allowing the client to reuse chunks it has already seen.
* Improved chunk loading performance in multiplayer.
* Improved performance around new villages and villager job sites.
* Several other performance improvements, including some related to mob AI pathfinding.
* Frosted ice blocks no longer drops performance while they're melting. ({{bug|MCPE-39698}})
* Endermen teleporting particles no longer cause consistent performance drops, especially during boss fights.
* Reduced the amount of memory required to load textures.
* Cached resource packs no longer decrease performance on Nintendo Switch. ({{bug|MCPE-36976}})
 
'''General'''
* Removed an unnecessary Xbox Live sign-in notification.
* Fixed an issue where consuming the last item in a stack to unlock an achievement could cause the achievement not to unlock.
* The "Haggler" achievement once again unlocks when requirements are met.
* The "Zombie Doctor" achievement now unlocks when curing a zombie villager. ({{bug|MCPE-46271}})
* Marketplace resource packs are now immediately applied after downloading in the world edit menu. ({{bug|MCPE-33121}})
* Player permissions now apply correctly when more than one operator tries to adjust them.
* Made improvements to roaming skins, which should apply correctly after reloading or reinstalling the game and signing in.
* Custom skins are now applied correctly without needing to restart the game to see them (on compatible platforms). ({{bug|MCPE-37926}}, {{bug|MCPE-45476}})
* Skins equipped from the "Recent" section are once again applied when selected.
* World settings now sync correctly between different Xbox One devices.
* Resource packs are now applied correctly after downloading through the world or global settings.
* Newly purchased Realms are now always visible after finalizing the purchase.
* Fixed an issue that would show an error message when attempting to renew a Realm subscription on Xbox One. ({{bug|REALMS-1686}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed several related issues with end gateway portals. These should now teleport the player to the correct safe location when used. ({{bug|MCPE-19699}}, {{bug|MCPE-43176}}, {{bug|MCPE-43177}})
* Villager trading now properly takes away items from the second slot, when applicable. ({{bug|MCPE-45506}})
* Only players who fought in a raid now receive the Hero of the Village effect in Realms.
* Players no longer see through the world when clipping into blocks after leaving a boat. ({{bug|MCPE-42593}})
* Players can now interact with blocks while holding a charged crossbow on touch devices.
* Players no longer clip through walls when transitioning from swimming to standing in water.
* Players that are being healed can now still be knocked back by TNT.
* Arrows that are shot into blocks keep their position when reloading the world.
* Area of Effect clouds no longer try to spawn excessive numbers of particles when the time of day is changed. ({{bug|MCPE-39595}})

'''Mobs'''
* Corrected the position of leads on wolves.
* Tamed cats no longer slide around while sitting. ({{bug|MCPE-44491}})
* Fixed the missing taiga zombie villager skin.
* Fixed a z-fighting texture issue on some villager skins.
* Dyed leather horse armor color no longer affects other horse armor. ({{bug|MCPE-43230}})
* Vindicators can now path correctly over carpet during raids.
* The wither no longer plays its spawning animation when reloading a world. ({{bug|MCPE-32415}})
* Mobs no longer path-find over brewing stands.
* Added a sound to indicate when a villager does not want to trade (like during a raid).
* Mobs now spawn on double slabs. ({{bug|MCPE-30765}})
* Fixed the sitting model for cats that were previously tamed ocelots. ({{bug|MCPE-41929}})
* Fixed missing zombie villager sounds. ({{bug|MCPE-43329}})
* New zombie villagers now have the correct name in death messages instead of a placeholder name. ({{bug|MCPE-45932}})
* Mobs no longer get stuck when pathfinding on ladders. ({{bug|MCPE-43034}})
* Evokers no longer move too fast when moving towards villages in raids.
* Mobs no longer spawn inside leaves during raids.
* Villagers that are actively trading with players no longer run and hide when the raid bell rings.
* Tamed tuxedo cats now use the proper texture. ({{bug|MCPE-43527}})
* Stray cats can no longer claim beds in villages for worlds converted from version 1.10. ({{bug|MCPE-44299}})
* The ghast spinning model in monster spawners is now the correct size.
* Fixed the wandering trader's podzol and coral trades.
* Removed the sand trade from the wandering trader.
* Iron golems no longer run to the world center after their village is destroyed. ({{bug|MCPE-45509}})
* Villagers without professions now follow regular schedules and actually sleep.
* Fixed the creeper model in some Marketplace maps.

'''Blocks'''
* Fixed various scenarios where certain blocks couldn't be placed until the game was restarted.
* Frosted ice blocks can now be broken. ({{bug|MCPE-41256}})
* Flowing lava once again turns into cobblestone when hit by water. ({{bug|MCPE-43990}})
* Red sandstone stairs now have correct textures on all sides. ({{bug|MCPE-20677}})
* Players no longer lose villager job site locations if they replace a job site block that is tied to an experienced villager.
* Village job site blocks now have consistent sound volume levels when used by players.
* Scaffolding can no longer be placed on conduit blocks.
* The bell now swings towards a player when it is hit. ({{bug|MCPE-42469}})
* Note block particles now correctly correspond to the notes played.
* The grindstone now correctly combines and repairs two damaged items.
* Farmland now has the correct side and bottom textures. ({{bug|MCPE-42746}})
* Smokers now have the correct bottom texture. ({{bug|MCPE-43944}})
* Fixed door and trapdoor textures. ({{bug|MCPE-43173}})
* Cocoa beans now break and drop when pushed by pistons. ({{bug|MCPE-41868}})
* Slabs and other non-solid blocks once again prevent grass from growing on dirt. ({{bug|MCPE-42975}})
* Flowing water is no longer left behind after flowing over string. ({{bug|MCPE-36343}})
* Bells now ring when hit with splash and lingering potions.
* Composter growth particles now appear in the correct location.
* Blocks can once again be placed on unlit redstone ore. ({{bug|MCPE-44305}})
* Fixed animated textures for flowing lava and water on several texture packs.

'''Items'''
* Efficiency pickaxes now break packed ice at a faster rate. ({{bug|MCPE-23648}})
* Dropped items no longer prevent minecarts from being placed on rails.
* Empty glass bottles now stack correctly when removed from brewing stands. ({{bug|MCPE-42175}})
* Banner patterns can no longer be lost or duplicated when switching them in a loom with a full inventory.
* Using pick block on sweet berry bushes now gives the player the correct item. ({{bug|MCPE-41877}})
* Bone meal is now consumed correctly when used on grass.
* Cactus blocks of different growth stages can be smelted into green dye again. ({{bug|MCPE-42497}})
* Stripped birch wood is no longer used to craft acacia planks when playing on Realms. ({{bug|MCPE-44398}})
* Shields no longer appear too bright in item frames. ({{bug|MCPE-41222}})
* Updated the illager banner texture. ({{bug|MCPE-43233}})
* The correct colors of wool are now displayed as a material required to create colored banners in the recipe book.
* The player's arm is no longer displaced in first-person view after eating food. ({{bug|MCPE-40135}})
* Tinted spawn eggs are now properly scaled in item frames.

'''World generation'''
* Fixed a bug on dedicated servers and Realms which could cause the wrong block types to generate in the world.
* Tweaked the number of job sites that generate in villages.

'''User interface'''
* Updated the glass texture for locked maps in the cartography table UI. ({{bug|MCPE-43314}})
* Adjusted the cartography table screen to fit Android screens when using Classic UI.
* Pressing the Y button on a controller on the cartography table output slot now only crafts the correct amount.
* Added controller tooltips for the lectern screen.
* Items that are split between slots in the villager trading screen still count as a total trade amount.
* The How to Play button on the cartography table now directs to the proper screen.
* Killing a wandering trader's llama can no longer display their inventory screen.
* The screen reader prompt no longer appears every time network settings are adjusted on Nintendo Switch.
* The "Always Day" toggle now correctly animates and shows the correct setting. ({{bug|MCPE-43304}})
* Dates appear again next to player earned achievements in the achievements menu.
* The 'Invite to Game' button is no longer enabled on featured servers.
* Going back to the Play screen (or Settings screen) now properly selects the previously selected tab when Text to Speech is enabled.
* The "Wheel Turning" button is now only shown once in the Minecraft VR settings.
* Made improvements to the patch notes to make sure the correct ones show up after an update.
* The Marketplace search screen now displays the proper pack icons.
* The "New" tag is now properly removed from a Marketplace collection once it has been viewed.
* Fixed Marketplace sale items not showing the discount percentage.

'''Commands'''
* Further improvements to performance when using selectors with commands.
* Removed "tile" prefix in the {{cmd|give}} command. ({{bug|MCPE-44667}})
* Made item names more consistent by removing "tile" from the beginning of some of them.
* Blocks and entities that aren't available in the Creative inventory no longer require the "{{cd|minecraft:}}" namespace when used as parameters in commands.
* After 'fishing_hook' is killed by command, players can now cast the hook again without having to cast twice.
* Killing a rideable entity no longer respawns its rider when killed in the same tick.
* The {{cmd|testforblock}} command now works reliably with items renamed in the language files.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* The behavior pack template once again contains the 'spawn_rules' folder.
* Removing a timer component and adding a new one should no longer have the new timer inherit the old timer's time value.
* Custom underwater mobs can now spawn naturally.
* Custom entities now correctly re-evaluate current target validity.
* {{cd|getBlocks}} now returns a 3D array of block objects.
* Fixed a scripting issue that could cause the player to float.
* {{cd|ScriptAttackComponent}} and {{cd|ScriptCollisionBoxComponent}} now correctly retrieve updated data.
* Pick block now works correctly on non-vanilla entities that have been added using add-ons. ({{bug|MCPE-38205}})
* Functions ran on a game loop now use an origin which has Game Master permissions, not Owner permissions.
** Added a new constructor parameter to the '{{cd|ServerCommandOrigin}}' so that the function manager can create an instance with upgraded permissions.
* Player position is now reported for the player feet like other mobs.
* Collision Box and Attack components report the correct data now.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|s8mLzhXDsJ8}}

==References==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.12.0]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]]
[[pl:Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.12.0]]
[[ru:1.12.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock 1.12.0]]
[[zh:基岩版1.12.0]]