{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.5.0.1.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' May 2, 2018
|parent=1.5.0
|prevparent=1.4.4
|prev=beta 1.5.0.0
|next=beta 1.5.0.4
|nextparent=1.5.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.5.0.1''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.5.0]], released on May 2, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004124692-Minecraft-Beta-1-5-0-1-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.5.0.1 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=May 2, 2018}}</ref>  which adds [[conduit]]s and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Conduit]]'''
* Crafted with 1 [[heart of the sea]] and 8 [[nautilus shell]]s.
* Can be activated by placing [[prismarine]], [[prismarine bricks]], [[dark prismarine]], and/or [[sea lantern]]s in 5x5 open squares around it.
** When active, will give nearby players the Conduit Power status effect.
* Will not create a [[water]] source block when placed
* {{Version exclusive}}: When activated by 42 specified [[block]]s, its inside texture will change again, similar to {{EffectSprite|Conduit Power}}.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Can be oriented in 16 different directions on top of a block like [[mob head]]s.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* {{EffectLink|Conduit Power}}
** Gives players [[Haste]], [[Night Vision]], and [[Water Breathing]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Blue ice]]'''
* Is now more slippery.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Bone meal can no longer be used too quickly.
* Blocks can no longer be placed underwater without highlighting another block while sprint-swimming in Creative mode.
* Players can no longer breathe underwater by swimming into ice blocks.
* The breath meter will no longer decrease when the player is visually above water.
* The breath meter is no longer refilled after quitting and loading back into a world.
* Dolphins can no longer be fed fish immediately after they have already been fed.
* Fences can once again be placed on leaves and certain other blocks.
* Fixed water not rendering when swimming against the bottom of a block.
* Seagrass obtained by commands is now functional and stackable.
* Changes to a world's name when it is initially created from a template will now update properly after saving and quitting.
* All buttons will now display properly in the hotbar and when placed in an item frame.
* The Lead attach point no longer appears in front of the player when swimming.
* Items will no longer get stuck in flowing water source blocks.
* Zombies that have transformed from husks no longer have super speed on land.
* Movement speed will stay constant after turning while sprint-flying in Creative mode.
* Flying speed now stays constant while descending.
* Mobs once again no longer spawn on carpet.
* Baby animals will no longer take damage in boats.
* Fixed the marker on treasure maps disappearing when another player quits and rejoins a world.
* Tridents can no longer be destroyed by explosions.
* Tridents thrown into soul sand now land properly and no longer prevent Loyalty from working.
* Tridents thrown underwater will no longer produce infinite bubbles.
* The 'Sign In' button will now disappear from the main menu after signing in.
* Using the '{{cmd|spreadplayers}}' command will no longer set entities or players at y=255.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.1]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.5.0.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.1]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.5 build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.5.0.1]]
[[ru:Beta 1.5.0.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.5.0.1]]