{{Infobox version
| image =  Bedrock 1.20.10.21 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.10.21.png
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| editorver = 0.3.6
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.1021.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.10.21<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.1021.70<br>
| build = 15791949
| server = 1.20.10.21
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952001021（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962001021（x86，33）<br>
972001021（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982001021（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = June 1, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.10.21.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.10.21.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.10
| prevparent = 1.20.1
| prev = Preview 1.20.10.20
| next = Preview 1.20.10.23
| nextparent = 1.20.12 
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.10.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.10.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.10]], released on June 1, 2023<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/16314419988493|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.20.10.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=June 1, 2023}}</ref>, which adds a new [[recipe]] unlocking system, brings more parity from {{JE}}, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]]'''
* Added "Recipe Unlocking" experimental toggle.
** Enable the new recipe unlocking system and the {{cmd|recipe}} [[command]].

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added a new splash text:
** Joule is neat too!

=== Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Released the <code>minecraft:max_stack_size</code> item component out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.10 and higher.
* Released the <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> item component out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.10 and higher.
* Released the <code>minecraft:record</code> item component out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.10 and higher.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Fog]]'''
* Underwater and fog effects are now based on camera position rather than player position.

=== Items ===
'''[[Boat|Bamboo Raft]]'''
* Recipe no longer needs a [[shovel]] to match {{JE}}.

=== Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Converted "''properties''" to "''states''" for custom blocks.
* Items with the <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> component will now place blocks with correct orientation.
* Custom items with <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> will no longer place certain blocks in the wrong location.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Experimental Cameras", "Recipe Unlocking", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|recipe}}'''
* A new [[command]] that gives or takes (unlocks or locks) [[recipe]]s for a player.
* Syntax: 
** <code>/recipe <victim: target> give <recipe: string></code>
*** Gives (unlocks) a specified recipe to a player.
** <code>/recipe <victim: target> take <recipe: string></code>
*** Takes (locks) a specified recipe from a player.
** If <code>*</code> is specified in <code>recipe: string</code>, it will unlock or lock all recipes for the player.

=== Changes ===
==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Recipe book]]'''
* Recipes are now unlocked when the player collect materials for it.
** Picking up an item teaches the player how to craft that item.
* A new notification appears when the player find a new crafting material.

==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|camera}}'''
* Limit free cam JSON to not pitch camera beyond plus or minus <code>90</code> degrees.
* Rendering of experimental <code>minecraft:free</code> camera no longer affected by player state like night vision.

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* ''System''
** Replaced <code>events</code> with <code>system.beforeEvents</code> and <code>system.afterEvents</code>.
** Renamed event <code>beforeWatchdogTerminate</code> to <code>watchdogTerminate</code> and moved it to <code>beforeEvents</code>.
** Moved <code>scriptEventReceive</code> to <code>afterEvents</code>.
* <code>MessageReceiveAfterEvent</code>
** Removed property <code>sourceType</code>.
* <code>ScriptEventSource</code>
** Replaced enum <code>MessageSourceTypewith</code> a new enum <code>ScriptEventSource</code>.
* <code>ScriptEventCommandMessageAfterEvent</code>
** Changed property <code>sourceType</code> from <code>MessageSourceType</code> to <code>ScriptEventSource</code>.
** Increased maximum message length from <code>256</code> to <code>2048</code> characters.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.10.21 Preview|otherissuescount=8
|;old
|123608|Transparent leaves overlap with opaque leaves.
|166566|Camels don't play their walking animations when they are damaged.
|169313|Freshly generated chunks cause boats and chestboats to disappear when riding in them.
|170208|30 second despawn immunity is broken again.
|170645|Game crashes when changing a mob's scale would make it collide with blocks.
|;previous
|170832|Hand position/size in first-person view are FOV dependent, making them look too small or stretched.
|170836|Players unable to open trapdoors when being inside of a composter/cauldron.
|170858|Game crashes when end crystal is placed on bedrock.
|170882|Player hitbox doesn't update after gliding with an elytra.
|170896|Bamboo rafts are still crafted with a shovel.
}}
'''Others'''
* The paper doll will now show up properly when crawling.
* Suspicious blocks now display correctly on maps.
* Shield no longer clips inside the armor stand model while in the riposte pose.
* Sniffer can no longer dig up seeds in the air.
* Fixed a crash that could happen when running the <code>go_and_give_items_to_noteblock</code> goal.
* Custom items with <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> will no longer place certain blocks in the wrong location.
* Fixed {{cmd|camerashake}} command to shake camera without also shaking player.
* Reordered the gamepad tooltips for UI screens so that the buttons align with the same side as a controller.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.10 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.10.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.10.21]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.10.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.10.21]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.10.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.10.21]]