{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.1.0
| edition = Editor
| type = 
| date = '''Preview'''<br>
August 19, 2025<br>
'''Stable'''<br>
September 30, 2025
| client = '''Preview'''<br>
[[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.110.25|1.21.110.25]]<br>
'''Stable'''<br>
[[Bedrock Edition 1.21.111|1.21.111]]
| prevparent = 1.0.0
| prev = 1.0.8
| next = 1.1.1
| nextparent = 1.2.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.1.0''' is a minor release for ''[[Bedrock Editor]]'' released in Preview on August 19, 2025, and in retail on September 30, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/258|title=Release 1.1.0 (1.21.110.25)|website=GitHub|date=August 19, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/264|title=Editor v1.1.0 is now in retail via the Launcher|website=GitHub|date=September 30, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/38927463808269-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-110-25|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.110.25|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 19, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added new Flatten Tool functionality.
** Added new Flatten mode to Terrain Tool, and new {{cd|FlattenSmoothing}}, {{cd|FlattenIntensity}}, and {{cd|FloorBlockOverride}} properties.
** Added two new Flatten sub-modes: Flatten Up and Flatten Both.
** Added ability to hide rotation controls within Cylinder Brush Shape.
** Added Cylinder Brush Shape property getters for {{cd|width}}, {{cd|depth}}, {{cd|height}}, {{cd|radius}}, and {{cd|isUniform}}.
** Removed old Flatten Tool, along with its {{cd|FlattenHeight}} and {{cd|FlattenRadius}} properties.
* Added a gizmo to the center of freehand and smart tool.
* Added new {{cd|ProjectAfterEvents}} API to global editor object for project wide events.
* Added a new button in export settings that sets the current position in Overworld as world spawn point for the playable world.

== Changes ==
* Updated the brush API to now specify a specific or relative position of the 'front face' of a block. You can also force the brush to apply a specific state to the block after its been placed.
* Updated paused entity state to persist through sessions for each project world.
* Updated Ruler Tool to support click-and-drag. Holding {{key|Ctrl}} while clicking will create additional rulers. Rulers will no longer disappear when switching to other tools.
* Updated Terrain Tool by consolidating Flatten and Elevation into one tool and improved functionality.
* Removed PBR Fallout Settings from Vibrant Visuals Settings.
== Fixes ==
* Fixed issue that prevents dragging nodes to be placed on a desired position.
* Fixed issue with distance between nodes while dragging. There should be a minimum predefined distance between nodes so two nodes cannot be placed on the same position.
* Fixed a bug that caused revert button in Vibrant Visuals panel settings to not function.
* Fixed Vibrant Visuals settings to have proper formatting after being copied to clipboard.
* Fixed a bug that caused Paste Preview offset to be incorrect after switching back from another modal tool.
* Fixed a bug that caused difficulty setting not applying correctly while exporting a playable world.
* Fixed a bug that caused weather setting not applying correctly while exporting a playable world.
* Fixed a bug that caused Smart Fill to highlight air when blocks are replaced with air block.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.1.0]]
[[uk:1.1.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]