{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.1.4
| edition = Editor
| type = 
| date = September 23, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.120.23|1.21.120.23]]
| prevparent = 1.1.0
| prev = 1.1.3
| next = 1.1.5
| nextparent = 1.2.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.1.4''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on September 23, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/263|title=Release 1.1.4 (1.21.120.23)|website=GitHub|date=September 23, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/39792573984013-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-120-23|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.120.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 23, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added support for Double Left Click, so the Color Picker and Editable popup open with DLC on the Graph.
* Added custom icon support for the checkbox variant of {{cd|IBoolPropertyItem}} with {{cd|checkboxIcon}} optional property.
* Added a new Scale Tool to resize selection.
** Enabled scaling along X, Y, Z axes individually or uniformly.
** Added Fractional scaling with fractional scale factors; maintained structure shapes during enlargement/shrink.
** Added preview visualization showing the scaled size before applying changes.
** Integrated the tool with undo and redo behaviors.
** Disabled scaling if current volume or resulting volume, whichever is larger, exceeds {{cd|MAX_ALLOWED_BLOCKS}} (currently 200,000).
* Added "orientation" settings which allows the use to decide what orientation the block should be placed.
* Added keyboard shortcuts and accompanying tooltips to all pencil "modes" (mode, draw mode, orientation mode).
* Added error message (log & toast) for when an object cannot be placed to due gameplay rules.

== Changes ==
* Updated Pencil functionality to have more polish.
** Updated the pencil tool, now when its erasing, if it's in face selection mode it will switch to block selection and then will switch back when it goes back to draw mode.
* Updated settings/usage to now persists between sessions.
* Updated block picker images' layout to be consistent across different window sizes and after exiting a test world.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug that caused creating multiple hotbars to error when the hotbar management panel is open.
* Fixed a bug that caused dismissing interactive tooltips to not work.
* Fixed Confirm button in hotbar dialog to immediately turn green when typing begins, providing proper visual feedback.
* Fixed undo behavior when using "object" mode.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.1.4]]
[[uk:1.1.4 (Bedrock Editor)]]