{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.0.55.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.55.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.55.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.0.55<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android''' - April 2, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.16.0.54
|next=beta 1.16.0.57
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.0.55''' is the eighth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]], released on April 2, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360041294872|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.0.55 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=April 2, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when creating a new world on iOS.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when exiting a world with particles present.
* Fixed several crash issues related to the player entering water.
* Fixed a crash that could happen when a mob's state changed.

'''General'''
* Light propagation now works correctly, fixing hostile mob spawning. ({{bug|MCPE-49616}})
* Chunks should no longer fail to load properly in +250MB worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-58514}})
* Fixed a bug with light persisting after a block change.
* Ticking areas can no longer be removed on the same tick they are created ({{bug|MCPE-36769}}). 
* Lighting now propagates correctly through chunk/subchunk borders ({{bug|MCPE-58182}}). 
* Fixed an issue that could cause areas to show lighting errors on servers. 
* Added new overload for {{cmd|replaceitem}} with an option for destroy (the old behavior) or keep (the command will return an error if an item occupies that slot).
* The smooth camera option (from full keyboard gameplay) is no longer jittery and is smooth again ({{bug|MCPE-54969}}).
* The screen no longer twitches when the player dies in the Nether or End.

'''Gameplay'''
* Water can now be collected from bubble columns ({{bug|MCPE-37571}})
* Casting a fishing rod will no longer attach itself to a parrot mounted on the player’s shoulder ({{bug|MCPE-60361}}).
* Fully grown sweet berry bushes can now be harvested when holding bone meal ({{bug|MCPE-54206}}).
* Parity: Carrot on a stick, shield, and shovel now lose durability consistently in Bedrock. 
* Fire charges are now consumed after lighting a tnt block ({{bug|MCPE-42938}}).
* Player icons no longer appear as a white square on locator maps.

'''Blocks'''
* Wall signs attached to doors are no longer left floating after the bottom half of the door is broken ({{bug|MCPE-43748}}).

'''Mobs'''
* Creepers no longer lose aggro immediately after losing sight of its target ({{bug|MCPE-32815}}).
* Ghast hitbox now matches its rendering ({{bug|MCPE-44326}}).
* Fixed the "MeleeAttackGoal" to allow entities to hit target entities beneath them.
* The iron golem's legs don't swing as far anymore.

'''Graphics and rendering'''
* Experience orbs have been data-driven.
* Fireballs have been data-driven.
* NPC geometry and animations have been data-driven.
* Items no longer flash green when being removed from a furnace.
* Fixed a bug where glass and water could be drawn incorrectly when close to each other.
* Fixed the custom glint texture issue when added to compasses.

'''Scripting and components'''
* Removed type property from {{cd|minecraft:shooter}} as it was never used.
* Updated {{cd|minecraft:spawn_entity}} to have an internal entities object or array.
* Updated the {{cd|minecraft:behavior.circle_around_anchor}} behavior.
* Added {{cd|attack_chance}} to the {{cd|minecraft:behavior.defend_village_target}} goal.
* Fixed removed or destroyed entities querying as valid in script. 
* Invalid items in the {{cd|spawn_item}} field of a {{cd|minecraft:spawn_entity}} now display an error. 
* {{cd|StompEggGoal}} no longer uses {{cd|search_count}} as it now searches all blocks in the specified area. 
* Fixed {{cd|navigation.walk}} to handle the case where it is used on a flying entity, so that the flying entity will not cause lag while it is touching the ground. 
* The {{cd|minecraft:density_limit}} component is now documented in the Spawn Rules documentation section ({{bug|MCPE-61126}}).
* A content error will now show up if you provide an invalid item name to {{cd|minecraft:interact}} in the {{cd|transform_to_item}} field.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.55]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.55]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.0.55]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.55]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.0.55]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.0.55 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.0.55]]