{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.50.20 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.50.20.png
| build = 18790057
| editorver = 0.4.7
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.5020.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.5020.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.50.20
| server = 1.20.50.20
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952005020（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962005020（x86，33）<br>
972005020（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982005020（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = October 11, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.50.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.50.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.50
| prevparent = 1.20.41
| prev = 
| next = Preview 1.20.50.21
| nextparent = 1.20.51
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.50.20''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.50.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.50]], released on October 11, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/20297322879245/|title=Minecraft - Beta & ''Preview'' 1.20.50.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 11, 2023}}</ref> which brings more parity with {{JE}} and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Game rule]]'''
* Added <code>showRecipeMessages</code>, to control whether the [[Toasts|recipe toast]]s are displayed. Defaults to <code>true</code>.
** Needs the <code>recipesUnlock</code> game rule set to <code>true</code> to work properly.

=== General ===
'''[[Particles]]'''
* Added new <code>dust_plume</code> particle type.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Andesite]], [[Diorite]], [[Granite]], [[Stone]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>stone</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="7" | {{BlockSprite|stone}} <code>stone</code>
| {{BlockSprite|stone}} <code>stone</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|granite}} <code>granite</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-granite}} <code>polished_granite</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|diorite}} <code>diorite</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-diorite}} <code>polished_diorite</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|andesite}} <code>andesite</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-andesite}} <code>polished_andesite</code>
|}

'''[[Decorated Pot]]'''
* Now can store items, up to a single stack of items.
** [[Player]]s can interact with them and insert items into them.
*** Player interactions with them cause them to wobble.
** They have no GUI, and need to be broken to retrieve their content by players.
* Now can be smashed by projectiles, which cause them to shatter and drop their contents.
* Now can stack up to 64.

'''[[Hopper]] and [[Dropper]]'''
* Now can insert and/or extract items from [[decorated pot]]s.

'''[[Planks]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>planks</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="6" | {{BlockSprite|planks}} <code>planks</code>
| {{BlockSprite|oak-planks}} <code>oak_planks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|spruce-planks}} <code>spruce_planks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|birch-planks}} <code>birch_planks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|jungle-planks}} <code>jungle_planks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|acacia-planks}} <code>acacia_planks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dark-oak-planks}} <code>dark_oak_planks</code>
|}

'''[[Redstone Comparator]]'''
* Now can read the number of items in [[decorated pot]]s.

'''[[Sculk Sensor]] and [[Calibrated Sculk Sensor]]'''
* Now can detect players interacting with [[decorated pot]]s, with frequency 11.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|camera}}'''
* Added a content warning for when the camera is placed outside of the player's chunk radius.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Raid]]'''
* Raid [[mob]]s can now join existing raids.

=== General ===
'''[[Death messages]]'''
* Updated death message when killed by a [[bed]] explosion in [[The Nether]].

'''[[How to Play]]'''
* Completely remodelled the "How to Play" screen and created a new "Encyclopedia" screen.
** Added [[netherite]] related items to how to play descriptions.
** Removed obsolete references to "[[Old|Old world]]" in "How to Play" screen.

'''[[Settings]]'''
* Removed the "Vertical Sync" video option.

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Deprecated the <code>tag:</code> legacy item component and released the <code>minecraft:tags</code> item component out of experimental in JSON formats <code>1.20.50</code> and higher.

=== Items ===
'''[[Smithing Template]]s'''
* Armor trims can now be applied to custom [[armor]].

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Minecart with Hopper]]'''
* Now can insert and/or extract items from [[decorated pot]]s.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Realms]]'''
* Realms are now available in betas and ''Previews''.
** Any player who has an active Realms subscription is eligible to create a free beta/''Preview'' Realm.
** Beta/''Preview'' Realms will be separate from the regular Realms to prevent any issues from impacting regular Realms.
* The version of the last played world on a Realm is displayed in the Realms list.
* Experiments are available for newly created worlds.
* Players can now download worlds larger than ''1GB'' from Realms on Xbox.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Molang Features", and "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experimental toggles.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Added <code>BlockComponentTypeMap</code>, <code>EntityComponentTypeMap</code>, and <code>ItemComponentTypeMap</code> aliases which map component IDs to their <code>TypeScript</code> types.
* Changed <code>Block.getComponent</code>, <code>Entity.getComponent</code>, and <code>ItemStack.getComponent</code> to return the correct derived component type.
* Added <code>BlockComponentTypes</code>, <code>EntityComponentTypes</code>, and <code>ItemComponentTypes</code> enums that enumerate component ID strings.
* Removed <code>CraftingEventPacket</code>.
* Added <code>effectAddBeforeEvent</code> and removed <code>effectState</code> from <code>effectAddAfterEvent</code>.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* Added <code>minecraft:behavior.melee_box_attack</code> behavior which functions the same as <code>minecraft:behavior.melee_attack</code> but uses bounds based attack reach calculations.
** The <code>reach_multiplier</code> attribute is removed and replaced with <code>box_increase</code>.
** Reach is calculated by increasing the bounds of the attacking mobs in the xz-plane by <code>box_increase</code> blocks to create an "attack box". If the attack box intersects with the target's bounds the attacking mob can reach it.
* Added <code>minecraft:can_join_raid</code> component to allow entities to join existing raids.

'''[[Molang]]'''
* The following Molang queries are deprecated and will no longer be available in packs with a <code>min_engine_version</code> of <code>1.20.50</code> or higher:
** <code>Replaced with query.timer_flag_1</code>, set by <code>behavior.timer_flag_1</code>.
** <code>Replaced with query.timer_flag_2</code>, set by <code>behavior.timer_flag_2</code>.
** <code>Replaced with query.timer_flag_3</code>, set by <code>behavior.timer_flag_3</code>.
** <code>query.is_scenting</code>
** <code>query.is_rising</code>
** <code>query.is_feeling_happy</code>
** <code>query.dash_cooldown_progress</code>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.50.20 Preview
|;From released versions before 1.20.0
|64168|Discovered the floor was lava death message grammar issue.
|123604|Death messages not appearing correctly.
|124736|Vindicators don't become passive to villagers in peaceful.
|168574|Attacking the mob in back seat when exiting boat.
|;From 1.20.0
|173492|Suspicious sand generate in ruins (cold).
|;old
|170831|Xbox on-screen keyboard covers command block line.
|174298|The search bar is a little bit smaller than the items list below it.
|174861|Librarian villagers common enchanted books are never max level enchanted.
|175237|Structure void blocks no longer block interactions.
|175538|The word "Production" is translated into other languages, which makes the line unreadable in Unicode languages.
|otherissuescount=14}}
'''Others'''
* Phantoms will no longer miss players who are gliding.
* Decreased the likelihood of players spawning above leaves
* Witches spawned via spawn eggs now join raids and throw potions at raiders.
* Fixed various spelling mistakes in the "How to Play" screen.
* Fixed tips display for custom vehicles from Marketplace packs when using touch controls with a joystick.
* Improved some of the common scripting error messages to provide better context and information.
* Fixed unreliability around <code>query.is_alive</code> on server.
* Fixed an issue preventing mobs from spawning further than 6 chunks away from the nearest player even if the server's simulation range is larger than 6 chunks.
* Fixed fullscreen overlays not being displayed when being submerged in lava and powder snow in the "Deferred Technical Preview".
* Fixed missing Hoppers within Minecarts in the "Deferred Technical Preview".
* Fixed an issue where certain light emitting blocks (e.g., sea lantern, glowstone, magma, etc...) could not be turned into point lights in the "Deferred Technical Preview".
* Fixed the appearance of rain, snow, and other weather effects in the "Deferred Technical Preview".
* Improved the quality of light sources over large distances in the "Deferred Technical Preview".
* Balanced the brightness of light emitted from emissive-only blocks in the "Deferred Technical Preview".</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.50.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.50.20]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.50.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.50.20]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.50.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.50.20]]