{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.5.0.4.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' May 16, 2018
|parent=1.5.0
|prevparent=1.4.4
|prev=beta 1.5.0.1
|next=beta 1.5.0.7
|nextparent=1.5.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.5.0.4''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.5.0]], released on May 16, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004203391-Minecraft-Beta-1-5-0-4-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.5.0.4 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=May 16, 2018}}</ref> which adds more [[Update Aquatic]] features and fixes numerous bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bubble Column]]s'''
* Created by placing [[magma block]]s or [[soul sand]] in water.
** Magma block columns pull entities down.
** Soul sand columns push entities up.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Have a different texture than {{in|je}}.

'''[[Turtle Egg]]s'''
* Created by breeding [[turtle]]s.

=== Items ===
'''[[Turtle Scute|Scute]]s'''
* Dropped when baby turtles grow up.
* Can be used to craft turtle shells.

'''[[Turtle Shell]]s'''
* Crafted with 5 scutes.
* Can be used as a helmet, adding 2 armor points.
** While equipped and in air, it will give the player the [[Water Breathing]] effect for 10 seconds.
* Can be used to brew the potion of the Turtle Master.

'''[[Potion of the Turtle Master]]'''
* Brewed with turtle shells.
* Gives the player [[Slowness]] IV and [[Resistance]] III.

'''[[Splash Potion]] of the Turtle Master'''
* Brewed with [[gunpowder]].

'''[[Lingering Potion]] of the Turtle Master'''
* Brewed with [[Dragon's Breath]]

'''[[Arrow#Tipped arrows|Arrow]] of the Turtle Master'''
* Crafted with 1 lingering potion of the Turtle Master and 8 arrows.

'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Added turtle spawn egg.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Turtle]]s'''
* Water mobs which make nests comprised of eggs on shorelines throughout various biomes.
* Can be bred using [[seagrass]].
* Spawn on warm beaches in small groups.
* Lay eggs in their home beach.
* Drop 0-2 seagrass upon death.

=== General ===
'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Added a new background to reflect [[Update Aquatic]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Coral]]'''
* No longer die as long as one side is touching [[water]].

'''[[Kelp]]'''
* Changed the top texture.

=== Items ===
'''[[Cooked Cod]]'''
* Changed texture.

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Reduced default field of view from 70 to 60.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several of that top crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when a piston pushed a block.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when too many sea pickles filled an area.
* Increased performance when viewing particles from the ender dragon's attack and lingering potions.
* Guardians and elder guardians are no longer stuck as benthic creatures.
* Fixed conduit power not affecting players that were swimming through a 1x1 space and in range of a Conduit.
* Cached data once again appears on the storage screen.
* Players will no longer inherit the host's spawn, inventory, and location when rejoining a world with a resource pack removed
* Tropical fish textures now appear properly on Android devices.
* The coordinates of buried treasure are now accurate when using the '{{cmd|locate}}' command.
* Pressing down on the controller no longer loses focus on the chat field.
* Fixed water flow being inconsistent and suspended around caves and ravines.
* Beacons and conduits now have sound effects.
* Command blocks can now be modified when set to 'Repeat' and 'Always Active'.
* Lava falling onto a water block with seagrass or kelp from will now become stone.
* Redstone, torches, and redstone torches can no longer be placed on seagrass underwater.
* Fixed tridents damaging multiple mobs in a single throw.
* Passengers in boats will now take damage when falling from a high place.
* It is now easier to attack mobs while swimming.
* Fixed the cracking animation not appearing when mining blocks through the water surface.
* Leather horse armor no longer loses its dyed color after world conversion.
* Mutated savanna plateau and mutated mesa plateau biomes now convert properly from old worlds
* Fixed water coloring in mutated biomes
* Fixed the controller not being detected when resuming the game from suspended state after changing the profile.
* Map items now have the proper name displayed in chat for players when using commands.
* Fixed some chunk rendering that caused players to see through the ground at certain angles.
* Minimized animation delays with large stacks of falling blocks.
* Fixed experience orbs not always being picked up by players.
* Fixed drowned spinning in place.
* Zombies that transform into drowned will now drop items when they die.
* Dolphins and cod no longer get the jitters when swimming in groups.
* Silverfish can once again enter stone blocks.
* Arrows fired by skeletons and strays can now damage the wither.
* The paper doll no longer sticks out of the frame on the inventory screen while swimming.
* Tridents fired from a dispenser no longer have the exact same trajectory and will now lose durability.
* Fixed textures on low-end devices when the Education toggle was enabled.
* Fixed issues with zombie pathfinding and not attacking players.
* Pistons once again have the proper texture underneath them when placed horizontally.
* TNT can no longer deal damage or destroy blocks underwater when placed on non-full blocks.
* Fixed the hitbox of coral fans.
* The "Manage who can send you invites" button in Profile settings now points to the proper location.
* Fixed two elder guardians sometimes spawning in each chamber of an ocean monument.
* Fixed spelling errors for Anemone and Red Lipped Blenny tropical fish.
* The 'Controls' section of How to Play now updates after remapping the sneak button.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.4]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.4]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.5.0.4]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.4]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.5 build 3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.5.0.4]]
[[ru:Beta 1.5.0.4 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.5.0.4]]