{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.0.20 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.0.20.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.18.20.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.20.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.0.20<br>
|parent=1.18.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': October 6, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.41
|prev=
|next=beta 1.18.0.21
|nextparent=1.18.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.0.20''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.0]], released on October 6, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4410756779405|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.18.0.20 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=October 6, 2021}}</ref> which moved all [[Caves & Cliffs]] features out from [[experimental gameplay]], and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[Cave]]s'''
* Old caves can now reach all the way to the surface.
* Old cave carver placement is now on parity with ''Java Edition''.

'''[[Mountains]]'''
* Tweaked peaks to look more jagged on small mountains instead of looking like flat hilly mounds.

=== General ===
'''[[Chunk]]s'''
* Improved blending between old and new chunks.

'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]]'''
* Removed the “Caves and Cliffs” experimental toggle.
** All features previously locked behind this toggle are now available through normal gameplay.

=== Technical ===
'''Item Scripting'''
* Implemented first past of Item Script Components:
** {{cd|ItemStack}}
*** Exposed interfaces for accessing script-enabled {{cd|ItemComponents}} on {{cd|ItemStack}}
*** {{cd|hasComponent(componentId: string)}} - returns true if the {{cd|ItemStack}} has the component {{cd|[componentId]}} attached to it
*** {{cd|getComponent(componentId: string)}} - returns a handle to the component attached to this {{cd|ItemStack}}. Returns an undefined handle if the component does not exist or if the component is yet to be exposed to script.
*** {{cd|getComponents()}} - returns an array of all attached script-enabled components on this {{cd|ItemStack}}.
** {{cd|NumberRange}}
*** A class to describe a random value between a min and max number
*** Property {{cd|min}} - the minimum value in the range
*** Property {{cd|max}} - the maximum value in the range
*** {{cd|next()}} - returns a random number between min and max.
** {{cd|Items}} registry
*** Added {{cd|Items}} registry class to get all {{cd|Items}} by name.
*** {{cd|get(itemId: string)}} - returns a handle to an {{cd|ItemType}} if a type by the given name exists.
** Script-enabled item components
*** {{cd|minecraft:food}}
**** Read-only property {{cd|nutrition}} - number that describes how much nutrition the food item gives the player when eaten
**** Read-only property {{cd|saturationModifier}} - number that is the saturation modifier used to apply the saturation buff when eaten
**** Read-only property {{cd|canAlwaysEat}} - if true the player can always eat the specified item (even when not hungry).
**** Read-only property {{cd|usingConvertsTo}} - string name of the item that the food item will be converted into when eaten. If empty, the item will not convert into anything else.
*** {{cd|minecraft:durability}}
**** Read-only property {{cd|maxDurability}} - the number that is the amount of damage this item can take before breaking
**** Read-only property {{cd|damageRange}} - a {{cd|NumberRange}} describing the chance of the item losing durability
**** Property {{cd|damage}} - gets or sets the current damage on the {{cd|ItemStack}}.
**** {{cd|<nowiki>getDamageChance(unbreaking: number = <level>)</nowiki>}} - gets the maximum chance that the item would be damaged using the {{cd|damageRange}} property if given an {{cd|unbreaking}} level. The incoming {{cd|unbreaking}} parameter must be greater than 0

== Fixes ==
'''Caves & Cliffs'''
* Water no longer generates floating in caves. ({{bug|MCPE-141424}})
* [[Meadow]] flowers no longer replace blocks in [[villages]] or other structures. ({{bug|MCPE-141378}})
* Tuff [[Blob|blob features]] now generate below y=0. ({{bug|MCPE-141452}})
* [[Deepslate]] patches no longer generate above y=0. ({{bug|MCPE-141330}})
* [[Amethyst geode]]s now get placed in the correct y-range during [[world generation]]. ({{bug|MCPE-141326}})
* [[Mineshaft]] tunnels cannot replace bedrock anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-141123}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented large trees from growing below y=0. ({{bug|MCPE-126254}})
* Small [[dripleaf]] now properly generates as part of the Lush Caves biome. ({{bug|MCPE-125799}})

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Players are no longer disconnected if the server and client have different runtime [[block IDs]].
* Optimized the time it takes to place vines in [[the Overworld]].

'''Accessibility'''
* Added the missing [[Narrator|screen reader]] on the “Controller lost connection” prompt.

'''Commands'''
* Order of function calls triggered by {{cd|[[Commands/execute|/execute]]}} inside a function is now consistent. ({{bug|MCPE-111849}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Corrected [[nether portal]] locations when the portal was moved but the location was not updated. ({{bug|MCPE-28765}})
* Breaking a block below fire no longer creates an invisible fire block when the {{cd|doFireTick}} [[gamerule]] is disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-101371}})

'''General'''
* Players with higher than recommended [[render distance]] settings are now prompted to change it to the recommended value.
* Render distance default and max settings have been updated for better performance
* A prompt now warns players that they will be taken back to the main menu if they sign in while in-game.
* Added caching support for [[subchunk]] requests and fixed issues with holes in the terrain.
* Fixed a rendering error that could occur when attempting to render a [[vanilla]] [[mob]] in a base game version prior to the version that mob was introduced through JSON files.
* Most content errors and warnings now only display once per [[world]]. ({{bug|MCPE-135153}})

'''Graphical'''
* The [[carved pumpkin]] enchantment glint now only covers the item instead of the entire slot. ({{bug|MCPE-68219}})
* Fixed a bug that could occur on older worlds where looking up in a [[minecart]] would display the inside of the minecart, blocking the player's view.
* Updated item rendering so [[enchanted]] items are no longer invisible in [[the Nether]]. ({{bug|MCPE-116880}})

'''Marketplace'''
* The store update prompt no longer appears without internet connection or on session start failure.

'''Mobs'''
* [[Mobs]] can now path over [[trapdoors]].
* Mobs no longer walk through [[campfires]]. ({{bug|MCPE-142054}})
* [[Axolotl]]s now animate correctly when airborne. ({{bug|MCPE-131322}})
* [[Sweet berry bush]]es now damage mobs. ({{bug|MCPE-56142}}, {{bug|MCPE-140012}})
* Mobs no longer try to path through sweet berry bushes.

'''User Interface'''
* [[Structure block]]s can now be saved and loaded within the current [[dimension]]'s height limits. ({{bug|MCPE-122643}})
* Fixed an issue where searching for non-existent content brought up the incorrect "1 result" message.
* Fixed overlapping text on offerings occurring on 4:3 resolution screens.
* Fixed [[Java Edition]] parity while lying in bed in multiplayer game. A message will show how many players are lying in [[bed]] while waiting for all players to fall asleep.
* Provided better visual feedback and hints for different render distance settings.

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Changed the raid [[bossbar]] color from pink to red. ({{bug|MCPE-46047}})
* [[Raid]] mobs now despawn after a raid ends if every player moves far away enough from them.
* [[Vindicators]] no longer naturally spawn in [[patrols]].

'''Villages'''
*The [[Hero of the Village]] effect now applies to all players who helped kill a [[raider]] once a raid is defeated; the effect also remains on the players, even if they travel outside the [[village]]. ({{bug|MCPE-53384}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.20]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.18.0.20]]
[[ru:Beta 1.18.0.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.0.20]]