{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=<!--Bedrock 1.15.0.53.png-->
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.15.53.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.15.53.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.15.0.53<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' February 20, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.15.0.51
|next=beta 1.15.0.54
|nextparent=1.16.1
|protocol=392
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.15.0.53''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.15.0 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16.0]]<ref>{{tweet|Chupacaubrey|1239595265264238593}}</ref>}} released on February 20, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360040027711|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.15.0.53 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=February 20, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Observer]]s'''
* No longer emit a [[redstone]] signal when placed.

=== General ===
'''Map-making and [[add-on]]s'''
* Item sprites are now data-driven.
* Drowned mobs are now data-driven.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.

'''Performance'''
* Optimized keyframe animation playback.
* Optimized performance when breaking lots of kelp plants.

'''Accessibility'''
* The text-to-speech reader now reads URLs properly.

'''General'''
* Lingering and splash potion particles now stay within their boundaries when in a confined space.
* Fixed a bug that prevented repeating and chain command blocks from being opened. ({{bug|MCPE-63089}})
* Cakes now have the correct texture states when partially eaten. ({{bug|MCPE-14757}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue that would cause a 'phantom' water block to appear when placing water on a fire near a sponge block. ({{bug|MCPE-57063}})
* Fixed an issue where water from bubble columns could not be collected. ({{bug|MCPE-37571}})
* Stacked minecarts that occupy the same space will now load and unload as expected. ({{bug|MCPE-54244}})
* Walking on scaffolding now makes correct sounds. ({{bug|MCPE-53279}})

'''Mobs'''
* Mobs now consistently take damage when spawning on magma blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-47518}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed an issue that would cause armor to unexpectedly render on mobs when being held in its hand.

'''Add-ons'''
* Custom entities that use the runtime identifier field now use the custom entity's name rather than the vanilla entity's name. ({{bug|MCPE-56229}})
* Fixed the {{cd|circle_around_anchor}} behavior which could cause mobs to freeze when there were blocks nearby.
* Dispensed splash and lingering potions now have potion effects in their projectile component.
* Fixed collision box not updating from script.
* The {{cd|damage_sensor}} component will now work on non-mob actors (such as ender crystals).
* A mob spawned in the air will no longer think it's on the ground once its movement is ticked. 

'''Character creator'''
* Fixed an issue that meant some character creator selections would not be saved between sessions. ({{bug|MCPE-32089}})</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
<references group="fn"/>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.53]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.53]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.15.0.53]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.53]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.15.0.53]]
[[ru:Beta 1.15.0.53 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.15.0.53]]