{{Infobox version
| image =  Bedrock 1.20.0.23 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.0.23.png
| image3 = Bedrock 1.20.0.23 (updated_panorama).png
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| server = 1.20.0.23
| build = 15319142
| editorver = 0.3.5
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952000023 (armeabi-v7a, 33)<br>
962000023 (x86, 33)<br>
972000023 (arm64-v8a, 33)<br>
982000023 (x86_64, 33)<br>
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - May 3, 2023
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.20.23.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.0.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.0.23.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.0.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.0
| prevparent = 1.19.83
| prev = Preview 1.20.0.22
| next = Preview 1.20.0.24
| nextparent = 1.20.1
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.20.0.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.0.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fourth  beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.0]], released on May 3, 2023<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/15421902578701|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.20.0.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 3, 2023}}</ref> which brings more parity from {{JE}} and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Gameplay]]'''
* Added new achievements:
** Planting the past
*** Plant any Sniffer seed
** Careful restoration
*** Make a Decorated Pot out of 4 Pottery Sherds

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Title Screen|Title screen]]'''
* The [[panorama]] was changed to showcase a [[cherry grove]] biome.
* Changed the [[panorama]] rotation to clockwise.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Bedrock Dedicated Server]]'''
*Content logs now show in dedicated server console window with a configurable log level using these new server properties:
**{{cd|content-log-level}} - Sets the minimum level for content logs to output. Allowed values: {{cd|verbose}}, {{cd|info}}, {{cd|warning}}, {{cd|error}}. Default: {{cd|info}}.
***Note: This log level also affects content logs written to disk when using {{cd|content-log-file-enabled<nowiki>=</nowiki>true}}.
**{{cd|content-log-console-output-enabled}} - Enables or disables content log output to the console window. Default: {{cd|info}}.

'''[[Entities]]'''
*Custom entities with internal-only components or AI goals will fail to load in game.
*Custom entities are restricted to overriding Vanilla entities released before 1.20. Invalid entities used in the {{cd|identifier}} or {{cd|runtime_identifier}} field will result in content errors.

'''[[Item]]s'''
*Released the following item components out of experimental in json formats {{cd|1.20.0}} and higher:
**{{cd|minecraft:display_name}}
**{{cd|minecraft:durability}}
**{{cd|minecraft:fuel}}
**{{cd|minecraft:entity_placer}}
**{{cd|minecraft:icon}}

'''[[Accessibility]]'''
*Added new "Chat Message Duration" accessibility setting to change how long chat messages remain on screen (3 seconds by default).
*Renamed "Notification Duration" to "Toast Notification Duration".

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[Add-On]]s and Script Engine'''
*Added {{cd|PlacementPosition}} ({{cd|minecraft:placement_position}}) {{cd|BlockTrait}} block trait.
**Adds states {{cd|minecraft:block_face}} and/or {{cd|minecraft: vertical_half}}.
**{{cd|minecraft:block_face}} is a six value string state ({{cd|down}}, {{cd|up}}, {{cd|north}}, {{cd|south}}, {{cd|east}}, {{cd|west}}) that contains info on which block face the player clicked on when the block was placed.
**{{cd|minecraft:vertical_half}} is a 2 value string state ({{cd|bottom}}, {{cd|top}}) with info on whether the block was placed in the lower or upper half of the block position.
**Both of these states are set when the block is placed ({{cd|onPlayerPlace}}).

'''[[API]]'''
*Moving {{cd|getComponent(componentId: string): EntityComponent | undefined }} method to {{cd|1.2.0}}.
*Moving {{cd|getComponents(): EntityComponent[]}} method to {{cd|1.2.0}}.
*Moving {{cd|hasComponent(componentId: string): boolean}} method to {{cd|1.2.0}}.
*Moving {{cd|EntityComponent}} class to {{cd|1.2.0}}.
*Moving {{cd|EntityBaseMovementComponent}} class to {{cd|1.2.0}}:
**Moving {{cd|readonly}} {{cd|maxTurn: number}} property to {{cd|1.2.0}}.
**Moving the following additional {{cd|EntityBaseMovementComponent}} subclasses to {{cd|1.2.0}}:
***{{cd|EntityMovementAmphibiousComponent}}
***{{cd|EntityMovementBasicComponent}}
***{{cd|EntityMovementFlyComponent}}
***{{cd|EntityMovementGenericComponent}}
***{{cd|EntityMovementHoverComponent}}
***{{cd|EntityMovementJumpComponent}}
***{{cd|EntityMovementSkipComponent}}
*Renamed {{cd|EntityIsDyableComponent}} class to {{cd|EntityIsDyeableComponent}} and moved to {{cd|1.2.0}}.
*Moving the following additional {{cd|EntityComponent}} subclasses to {{cd|1.2.0}}:
**{{cd|EntityCanClimbComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityCanFlyComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityCanPowerJumpComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityColorComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityFireImmuneComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityFloatsInLiquidComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityFlyingSpeedComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityFrictionModifierComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityGroundOffsetComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsBabyComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsChargedComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsChestedComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsHiddenWhenInvisibleComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsIgnitedComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsIllagerCaptainComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsSaddledComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsShakingComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsShearedComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsStackableComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsStunnedComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityIsTamedComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityMarkVariantComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityPushThroughComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityScaleComponent}}
**{{cd|EntitySkinIdComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityVariantComponent}}
**{{cd|EntityWantsJockeyComponent}}
*Added class {{cd|EffectTypes}}
**Added function {{cd|get(identifier: string): EffectType}} - Returns the effect type if it exists.
**Added function {{cd|getAll(): EffectType[]}} - Returns all of the effects.
*Updated class {{cd|Effect}}.
**Updated {{cd|duration}} property. Is the duration of the effect in ticks.
**Added property {{cd|typeId}}. Returns the effect’s type id.
*Added interface {{cd|EntityEffectOptions { amplifier?: number, showParticles?: boolean <nowiki>}</nowiki>}}
**Added function {{cd|removeEffect(effectType: EffectType | string): boolean}} - Removes an effect from an entity. Returns {{cd|false}} if the effect is not found or does not exist.
**Updated function {{cd|getEffect(effectType: EffectType | string): Effect | undefined}} - Gets the effect if it exists on the entity. Otherwise returns {{cd|undefined}}.
**Updated function {{cd|addEffect(effectType: EffectType | string, duration: number, options?: EntityEffectOptions): boolean}} - Adds an effect to the entity. Returns {{cd|false}} if the effect cannot be added (the effect does not exist, the duration is negative).
*Items using the minimum duration for the {{cd|minecraft:fuel}} component now work in the [[Blast Furnace]] and [[Smoker]].

'''[[Item]]s'''
*Items with the {{cd|minecraft:throwable}} component now trigger the throw sound effect when used

'''Scripting'''
*After Events
**All non-before events have been moved from {{cd|world.events}} to {{cd|world.afterEvents}}.
**{{cd|events}} has been removed from the world object.
**After events do not execute immediately, instead they are deferred until a later point in the tick when they are flushed. It is guaranteed that all events fired in a tick are flushed within a tick.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.0.23 Preview
|;old
|141124|Inactive scroll buttons can still play scroll sounds
|156331|The title on the Behavior pack dialogue box is not capitalized correctly
|166581|Camera goes black when sneaking in a space that is 1.5 blocks high
|167247|Experience orbs do not merge
|168885|Calibrated sculk sensor ignores some redstone inputs
|169423|Z-fighting occurs on the sniffers' heads and ears
|;previous
|168805|Some brushing sounds missing
|169491|Sniffer eggs can be destroyed by fluids, which is different from turtle eggs
|169492|Pitcher Plant can be farmed with bone meals on the plant
|169497|Sniffer egg crack uses "block.turtle_egg.crack" sound event despite "block.sniffer_egg.crack" existing
|169522|Sign in Xbox screen image is upside-down.
|169530|Calibrated sculk sensors doesn't receive redstone signals going through blocks
|169540|Banner Shield and Trimmed Armor persists when placed in the bottom Grindstone slot instead of the top slot (java parity)
|169562|Amethyst resonance doesn't work when block of amethyst is placed above or below the sculk sensor
|169654|Crash when brush breaks
|169929|Relic Music Disc doesn't generate as an archeology loot in the trail ruins
|otherissuescount=17}}
'''Other'''
*Screen reader now properly reads description in popping window after disabling "Require Encrypted Websockets".
*Screen reader now properly reads description in popping window after disabling "Allow mobile data for online play".
*Sculk Sensors, Calibrated Sculk Sensors, and Sculk Shriekers will no longer lose in-flight vibrations when leaving the world.
*Fixed an issue where the Calibrated Sculk Sensor tendrils were not lighting uniformly.
*Fixed custom textures that override vanilla blocks with aux metadata as a list of textures.
*Breaking Pitcher Plants with Fortune enchanted tools will now not drop more than one flower.
*Bone Meal now can’t be used on Torchflowers to spawn other flowers.
*Using Bone Meal on a Torchflower Crop will now always make it grow one stage.
*Sniffer Egg can now be placed in water and lava.
*Screen fade effect when sleeping or using camera fade command will no longer appear when a picture is taken.
*Sculk Sensors and Calibrated Sculk Sensors now play their "power off" sound at the end of the Cooldown phase instead of the Active phase.
*Fixed issues with keyboard navigation on some menu screens on iOS and Android.
*Fixed a bug where respawning in VR sometimes softlocks the player in the death screen.
*Text shadowboxes now have the correct opacity on interactable block screens.
*Distinct green particles are now emitted by the player under effect of Hero of the Village status effect.
*Fixed a graphical issue where a gamepad icon would display over another screen.
*Fixed an issue were the setting had no affect on how long toasts remained on display.
{{fixes|project=REALMS|fixedin=1.20.0.23 Preview
|;old
|11276|When playing split screen, if the second player logs out, it disconnects both players from realm|otherissuescount=0}}</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.0 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.0.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.0.23]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.0.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.0.23]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.0.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.0.23]]