{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.8.0.11.png
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 24, 2018
|parent=1.8.0
|prevparent=1.7.1
|prev=beta 1.8.0.10
|next=beta 1.8.0.13
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.8.0.11''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0]], released on October 24, 2018,<ref>{{link|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360018603151-Minecraft-Beta-1-8-0-11-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.8.0.11 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback}}</ref> which makes some changes to [[panda]]s and fixes several bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Panda]]s'''
* All default pandas now bite once when attacked.
* Aggressive pandas now defend other pandas.
* Changed aggressive panda skin.
* Now broadcast their anger to aggressive pandas.
* Aggressive pandas will now defend baby pandas that get hit.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when joining [[multiplayer]] servers.
* The player's arm now moves at the correct speed when breaking blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-38041}})
* Custom entities can now correctly use the {{code|minecraft:shooter}} component. ({{bug|MCPE-38263}})
* Players can now correctly use scaffolding that is in or near [[water]]. ({{bug|MCPE-38054}})
* Flight controls on mobile devices now work correctly after climbing [[scaffolding]]. ({{bug|MCPE-38059}})
* Fixed a bug that caused horses (and variants) to show flashing colors on certain devices. ({{bug|MCPE-31726}})
* Fixed a bug that caused a significant performance drop when rendering [[chunk]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-37192}})
* Gamerule commands can now only be changed by operators.
* Falling blocks (such as sand) will no longer cause scaffolding extensions to fall. ({{bug|MCPE-38098}})
* Fixed a bug that could result in the player's spawn point being changed inadvertently.
* Pressing the "Go Back" button in "Turn Off Achievements" window no longer changes the game mode in World Settings.
* Pandas no longer become stuck in a sitting position after reloading the world. ({{bug|MCPE-38278}})
* Newly equipped player skins now apply correctly to the paper-doll model.
* [[Endermen]] will no longer have a missing jaw.
* Blocks now disappear more quickly when broken quickly in creative.
* Search results in the Marketplace are now more consistent when searching through all content.
* Only templates are suggested in the "Get More Templates" menu now.
* Using a bucket of fish in a dispenser no longer crashes the game. ({{bug|MCPE-38194}})
* Dyed beds now have the correct crafting recipe.
* Fixed the bug where the player would unexpectedly turn in a random direction. ({{bug|MCPE-35910}})
* Double slabs will now create the correct type of block. ({{bug|MCPE-38107}})
* Fixed a bug where the world could crash if the player exited the world whilst using a nether portal.
* Selecting an unowned skin now directs you to the expanded skin picker menu.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.11]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.11]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.8.0.11]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.11]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.11]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.8.0.11]]
[[ru:Beta 1.8.0.11 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.8.0.11]]