{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.19.0.20 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.19.0.20.png
|image3=Bedrock 1.19.0.21.png
|type=Preview
|internal=;Beta
'''Windows''': 1.19.20.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.19.20.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.19.0.20<br>
'''Preview'''
'''Windows''': 1.19.21.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.19.21.70<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.0.21<br>
|parent=1.19.0
|date='''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''': April 6, 2022
|prevparent=1.18.33
|prev=
|next=Preview 1.19.0.25
|nextparent=1.19.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.0.20''' (Windows, Android, Xbox) or '''Preview 1.19.0.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.0]], released on April 6, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-beta---preview-1-19-0-20|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview 1.19.0.20|website=minecraft.net|date=April 6, 2022}}</ref> which adds the [[mangrove swamp]] biome, mangrove wood, [[mud]] and its variants, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Mangrove Leaves]]'''
* A new type of leaves.

'''[[Mangrove Log]]'''
* A new type of log, as well as a stripped variant.
* Can be used to craft mangrove woods and planks.

'''[[Mangrove Planks]]'''
* A new type of planks.
* Can be used to craft mangrove [[button]]s, [[door]]s, [[fence]]s, [[fence gate]]s, [[pressure plate]]s, [[sign]]s, [[slab]]s, [[stairs]], and [[trapdoor]]s.

'''[[Mangrove Propagule]]'''
* A new type of sapling.
* Can be grown by bonemealing the mangrove leaves, grows from the exposed bottom of it.
** Propagules can also grow spontaneously from leaves, but only if they're naturally generated (not player placed leaves).
** Have 4 stages to fully grown, can be accelerated by bonemealing.
* Can break off a fully grown one, plant it to growing a mangrove tree.
* Can be planted underwater.
* Can be placed in [[flower pot]]s.

'''[[Mangrove Roots]]'''
* A see-through block just like leaves, but can be waterlogged.
* Mining faster when using [[axe]]s.
* Unlike leaves, it will not break when moved by a piston.

'''[[Mangrove Wood]]'''
* A new type of wood, as well as a stripped variant.
* Can be used to craft mangrove planks.

'''[[Mud]]'''
* Can generate in the mangrove [[biome]].
* When walking on mud, entities sink down a bit.
** Like [[soul sand]], but without the slowdown.
* Can be made by using a [[water bottle]] directly or through a [[dispenser]] on [[dirt]], [[coarse dirt]] and [[rooted dirt]].
* [[Enderman]] holdable.

'''[[Mud Bricks]]'''
* Can be crafted from 4 [[packed mud]].
* Can be used to crafted into mud brick slabs, stairs, and walls using a [[crafting table]] or [[stonecutter]].

'''[[Muddy Mangrove Roots]]'''
* Can be crafted from 1 mud and 1 mangrove roots.
* Unlike regular roots, they are an opaque block that can't be waterlogged.
* Mining faster when using [[axe]]s.

'''[[Packed Mud]]'''
* Can be crafted from 1 mud and 1 [[wheat]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Mangrove Boat]]'''
* A new type of boat, crafted with mangrove planks.
* Can be made into a [[boat with chest|mangrove boat with chest]]

=== World generation ===
'''[[Mangrove Swamp]]'''
* A new swamp located in warmer and more humid places, a place which a [[swamp]] can be found often.
* Contains [[tree|Mangrove tree]]s, a new type of tree. Currently, the logs are regular oak logs instead of mangrove logs
** It has a chance to generate a [[bee nest]].
** Grows from [[mangrove propagule]]s.
* The floor is coated with a thick layer of [[mud]].

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* A new accessibility slider has been added in the options menu called “Darkness Effect Strength”.
** It controls how dark the Darkness effect gets when a Warden or [[Sculk Shrieker]] gives it to the player.

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added the following splash text:
** "Shriek like a Sculk Shrieker!"
** "Who let the frogs out?"
** "RIBBIT!"
** "Croak team!"
** "Nooooooooooooo!"
** "Flower forest TM perfume"
** "Hat Fridays!"

== Changes ==
===Blocks ===
'''[[Sculk Sensor]]'''
*Can now detect more types of vibration, including:
**Sneaking in water
**Containers being opened/closed
**[[Candle]]s being placed, lit or unlit
**Players eating food or drinking potions
**[[Big dripleaves]] changing state
**[[Goat horn]]s being played (not including [[copper horn]]s).
**Projectile landing (unless the player is sneaking whilst shooting)
**Falling in lava
**Players sneaking on top of them

===Mobs===
'''[[Allay]]'''
*Can now be leashed and nametagged if holding an item
*Now have new sound effects
*Now move slower when not attempting to follow its owner, and will only start following its owner from a further distance than before

'''[[Frog]]'''
*No longer croak whilst eating mobs

'''[[Parrot]]'''
*Can now imitate the warden

'''[[Wandering Trader]]'''
*Can no longer open or close [[door]]s
*Now randomly moves around
*Changed drinking sound to match {{jE}}
*Added new sound effects for gaining and losing Invisibility
*Can now be named with a [[name tag]], but this will not stop them from despawning

'''[[Warden]]'''
*No longer gets angry at inanimate objects, such as [[minecart]]s, or other wardens
*Can now preserve anger level towards despawned entities
*Added new hurt, death and angry listening sound effects

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Darkness]] effect'''
*Updated to have a black distance fog, similar to ''Java Edition''

=== General ===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]]'''
* All the Wild Update features are no longer behind experimental gameplay.

== Fixes ==
'''Wild Update'''
* Allay can now be leashed if it is already holding an item ({{bug|MCPE-153068}})
* Allay can now be named by a Name Tag if it is already holding an item ({{bug|MCPE-153079}})
* Sculk Sensors can now detect players sneaking in Water ({{bug|MCPE-117244}})
* Sculk Sensors can now detect containers being opened or closed ({{bug|MCPE-135140}})
* Sculk Sensors can now detect Candles being placed, lit, or unlit ({{bug|MCPE-141453}})
* Sculk Sensors can now detect players eating food or drinking potions ({{bug|MCPE-135114}})
* Sculk Sensors can now detect Big Dripleaves changing their state ({{bug|MCPE-153115}})

'''Mobile Touch Controls'''
* Block highlights will no longer stay if players lift their block breaking finger off the screen while still using a second finger to move around with non-classic touch controls
* Fixed issue where Boats were not controllable with new touch controls ({{bug|MCPE-152984}})
* Fixed issue where players were not able to descend while on top of Scaffolding ({{bug|MCPE-152989}})
* Removed inversion of movement when in front facing third-person camera ({{bug|MCPE-153168}})

'''General'''
* Fixed a bug causing the Parrot's head to always face the player while riding the player
* Fixed bug causing player to take fall damage after getting into a Bed while falling ({{bug|MCPE-153122}})
* Fixed bug causing baby Llamas to fire llama spit from above their head ({{bug|MCPE-144948}})
* Fixed a crash when loading a Behavior Pack with non-JSON object in entity components, component_groups, and "add"/"remove" events ({{bug|MCPE-151377}}) ({{bug|MCPE-151380}})
* Fences and Walls no longer connect to Bells ({{bug|MCPE-152757}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed a texture bug in the Warden's bioluminescent texture where the right arm's bottom face didn’t have bioluminescent colors ({{bug|MCPE-153664}})
* Fixed a bug where the Trident, Bow, Spyglass, Crossbow, and Shield would not be visible when held by an Allay ({{bug|MCPE-152965}})
* Fixed a bug where the Trident, Bow, Spyglass and Crossbow would not render when picked up by a Fox ({{bug|MCPE-135346}})
* Mirrored the Spider's left legs ({{bug|MCPE-152927}})
* Mirrored the Wolf's left ear and left legs ({{bug|MCPE-152931}})
* Fixed a bug where the Brewing Stand's arms textures did not touch the base ({{bug|MCPE-152932}})
* Moved the Brewing Stand's base UVs and updated the base texture
* Fixed the Brewing Stand's arms rotation
* Created a better transition between the End Portal Frame side texture and the End Stone ({{bug|MCPE-152930}})
* Removed unused pixels in the End Rod texture ({{bug|MCPE-152929}})
* Updated the Mycelium's side texture to match other dirt-based textures ({{bug|MCPE-152928}})
* Fixed a bug where End Crystal beams would point far above their target blocks
* Fixed a bug causing z-fighting to occur on bottom of player’s head while wearing a Skull ({{bug|MCPE-149125}})

'''Wandering Trader'''
* The Wandering Trader no longer opens or closes doors ({{bug|MCPE-113452}})
* The Wandering Trader now randomly moves around ({{bug|MCPE-45756}})
* The Wandering Trader now matches Java Edition's drinking sounds ({{bug|MCPE-47057}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.0 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.0.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.0.20]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.0.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.0.21]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock Preview 1.19.0.21]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.0.20]]