{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.8.9
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = February 19, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.70.24|1.21.70.24]]
| prevparent = 0.8.0
| prev = 0.8.8
| next = 
| nextparent = 0.9.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.8.9''', is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on February 19, 2025, which improves the workbench and fixes bugs.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/223</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/34396781018893-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-70-24|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.70.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 19, 2025}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Tools ===
* Added terracotta to block picker.
* Added Workbench support for selections allowing for updated to all blocks of the same type in the selection.
* Updated Flatten Tool to no longer stays active when changing to Crosshair Mode.
* Updated pyramid brush maximum height to 40 blocks.
* Removed end gateway or structure block from block picker.

=== UI ===
* Updated various icons in editor UI for better resolution and functional clarity.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug that filtered stain glass blocks from block picker.
* Fixed a bug that caused Project Through Water checkbox to be active for Keyboard only cursor control in panes.
* Fixed a bug that caused custom time settings to be disabled for Time of Day pane.
* Fixed a bug that caused player positions limit to have wrong values in Navigation Panel.
* Fixed a bug where releasing the scrollbar after dragging outside the dropdown menu closed it.
* Fixed a bug that caused button layout and inner icon size to be incorrect.
* Fixed a render issue related to banner, conduit, creeper head, decorated pot, dragon head, piglin head, player head, skeleton skull, wither skeleton skull, and zombie head thumbnails.
* Fixed an assert/crash due to custom block rendering components in creator packs or addons.
* Fixed Workbench functionality with block that use the {{cd|minecraft:block_face}} and {{cd|minecraft:vertical_half properties}}.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.8.9]]
[[ru:0.8.9 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.8.9 (Bedrock Editor)]]