{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.1.5
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = '''Preview'''<br>
October 1, 2025<br>
'''Stable'''<br>
October 28, 2025
| client = '''Preview'''<br>
[[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.120.24|1.21.120.24]]<br>
'''Stable'''<br>
[[Bedrock Edition 1.21.120|1.21.120]]
| prevparent = 1.1.0
| prev = 1.1.4
| next = 1.1.6
| nextparent = 1.2.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.1.5''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released in Preview on October 1, 2025, and in retail on October 28, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/265|title=Release 1.1.5 (1.21.120.23)|website=GitHub|date=October 1, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/269|title=Editor v1.1.5 is now in retail via the Launcher|website=GitHub|date=October 28, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/40008177570061-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-120-24|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.120.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 1, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added jigsaw support to make the creation of jigsaws less technical and more intuitive.
* Added curves into the line tool to make more organic shapes. Curves also work with node weights.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed outdated terminology in Vibrant Visuals Settings panel. Changed "Deferred Lighting" to "Vibrant Visuals" in the error messages.
* Fixed the issue where the background of hover text clips prematurely.
* Fixed a bug where command blocks couldn't use the {{cmd|structure}} command in editor projects.
* Fixed issue that was preventing manually entering node value in the textbox (in Edit mode - turned on with double left click) for two dimensional graph.
* Fixed a bug where only one player in a multiplayer Editor session can use the Terrain Tool at a time.
* Fixed a bug where the Terrain Tool was ignoring Mask and Replace filters.
* Fixed a bug that caused unusable buttons to show up in editor pause menu.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.1.5]]
[[uk:1.1.5 (Bedrock Editor)]]