{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.2.4
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = January 13, 2026
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 26.0.28|26.0.28]]
| prevparent = 1.2.0
| prev = 1.2.3
| next = 
| nextparent = 
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.2.4''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on January 13, 2026.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/303|title=Release 1.2.4 (1.26.0.28)|website=GitHub|date=January 13, 2026}}</ref><ref>
{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/42634616536589-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-26-0-28|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.26.0.28|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 13, 2026}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added Chunk Management panel to World menu for regenerating or deleting chunks.
* Adds a dynamic limit for selection volumes that limits the volume to 1,000,000 blocks. 
** Allows for non-cube rectangular volumes larger than the previous 100x100x100 cube limit. A larger cube limit is still present at 1024x1024x1024 AB#1508404.
* Added Cinematic Tool for creating camera animation paths.
** Create paths using control points with spline interpolation (Catmull-Rom or Linear).
** In-game visualization of control points and spline paths with interactive gizmos.
** Play/stop animation preview for camera movement along the spline path.
** Export TypeScript code with validation for duplicate timestamps.
* Added Flood Tool to Editor - a new tool for efficiently flooding or draining water and lava across large areas.

== Changes ==
* The Vibrant Visuals Settings panel now supports editing settings for each biome.
* Blocks that leverage the minecraft:connection block trait now will connect when used in the Editor.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[es:Bedrock Editor 1.2.4]]