{{Infobox version
|title=v1.11.3
|edition=Bedrock Edition
|image=Bedrock 1.11.3.png
|internal=1.11.3.1</br> '''Windows 10''': 1.11.301.0
|date='''Android, iOS, Fire OS, Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Gear VR, Xbox One''' –  May 17, 2019
|prev=1.11.2
|prevparent=1.11.0
|next=1.11.4
|nextparent=1.12.0
}}

'''1.11.3''' is a hotfix for {{el|be}} released on May 17, 2019,<ref>{{tweet|Mega_Spud|1129418435623047173|There is a 1.11.3 hotfix for Minecraft rolling out now! Changelog here:|May 17, 2019}}</ref> for all Bedrock devices except Nintendo Switch, which fixed some bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360028439431-Minecraft-1-11-3-Bedrock-|title=Minecraft - 1.11.3 (Bedrock)|date=May 17, 2019}}</ref> It is not compatible with 1.11.0 through 1.11.2 servers.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that could occur when mobs found the nearest attackable mob.
* When converting from old villagers to new villagers, they will now keep their XP level.
* Villagers cured of being zombie villagers can no longer change their profession if they have enough XP ({{bug|MCPE-42348}}).
* Another fix for villagers changing their professions when they are not supposed to.
* Fixed pathfinding so when an entity cannot float, swim, or be amphibious, it can still walk at the bottom of water.
* Fixed player tags and profile pictures of Realms members not appearing on the members list.
* The Realms members list no longer returns to the first page when navigating to another page.
* When using commands, the {{cd|villager|d=and|zombie_villager}} target selectors now target both old and new villager types.

== Trivia ==
* This version was released 10 years after [[Java Edition Classic 0.0.11a|Classic 0.0.11a]], the first publicly released version of ''Minecraft''.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.11.3]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.11.3]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.11.3]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.11.3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.11.3]]
[[ru:1.11.3 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.3]]