{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.60.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.60.23.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| date = '''Windows, Android, Xbox''' - December 7, 2022 <br>'''iOS, iPadOS''' - December 8, 2022
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.6023.0<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.6023.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.60.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.60.23.zip Windows]
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.60.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.60
| prevparent = 1.19.51
| prev = Preview 1.19.60.22
| next = Preview 1.19.60.24
| nextparent = 1.19.62
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.19.60.23''' (Android) or '''Preview''' '''1.19.60.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.60]], released on December 7, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/11259038367245|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.60.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 7, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Campfire]]'''
* Campfires no longer set players and mobs on fire.

=== Technical ===
'''Components'''
* Expanded <code>minecraft:shooter</code> component to define multiple projectiles that can specify different projectile definitions and condition filters.
* Exposed more fields to shooter component to allow for more projectile customization such as throw power, sounds, and whether the attack is a magic attack.
* Projectiles that teleport their owner will no longer do so while their owner is sleeping. ({{bug|MCPE-161189}})
'''Molang'''
* Fixed a bug where dividing any value in Molang by a dynamically determined negative variable resulted in a division by a positive (absolute) value instead.
** This is a Molang Versioned Change that only takes effect for Molang expressions in packs that use a <code>min_engine_version</code> of 1.19.60 or higher.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Chiseled Bookshelf]]'''
* Chiseled bookshelf no longer triggers observer blocks on world load.

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Added method <code>setOnFire(seconds: number, useEffects?: boolean = true): boolean)</code> which sets an entity on fire (if it is not in water or rain).
* Added method <code>extinguishFire(useEffects?: boolean = true): void</code> which extinguishes the fire.
* If an entity is on fire, you can call <code>getComponent(minecraft:onfire)</code> on it, which returns an object of type ''EntityOnFireComponent'', which has a property onFireTicksRemaining.
* Fixed a bug where ''viewDirectionwould'' return the direction from the previous tick.
* Fixed a bug where ''getEntitiesFromViewDirectionwould'' use the direction from the previous tick.
* Fixed a bug where ''getBlockFromViewDirectionwould'' use the direction from the previous tick.
* Fixed a bug where ''headLocationwould'' return the location from the previous tick.
* Renamed ''ScriptScriptCommandMessageEvent'' to ''ScriptEventCommandMessageEvent''.

== Fixes ==
'''Blocks'''
* Respawn anchor no longer retains its charges if mined with Silk Touch or picked. ({{bug|MCPE-145682}})
* Scaffolding now displays particles and produces vibrations when the block under it is destroyed. ({{bug|MCPE-163738}})
* The sculk shrieker block's shriek sound can now be heard at the longer distance of 32 blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-163989}})
'''Gameplay'''
* Bamboo sapling will no longer replace double plants when placed. ({{bug|MCPE-99806}})
* Campfires do not destroy minecarts and boats anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-109489}})
* Ender pearls will no longer teleport a sleeping player. ({{bug|MCPE-161189}})
'''Graphical'''
* Players can no longer see through terrain by riding a horse, mule, or donkey at the edge of a 2-block-tall space. ({{bug|MCPE-133984}})
'''Items'''
* Blocks that require supporting blocks now appear properly on a map when placed on partial blocks or above air. ({{bug|MCPE-159713}})
'''Mobs'''
* Ravagers are now able to attack on various partial blocks like mud. ({{bug|MCPE-162483}})
* Glow squid now emit particles when spawned outside of water.
'''User Interface'''
* Fixed structure block UI so the Y value field can be accessed with just the keyboard. ({{bug|MCPE-164148}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.60 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.60.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.60.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.60.23]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.60.23]]