{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.20.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.20.22.png
| build = 16763275
| editorver = 0.4.1
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.2022.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.20.22<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.2022.70<br>
| server = 1.20.20.22
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952002022（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962002022（x86，33）<br>
972002022（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982002022（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = July 20, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.20.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.20.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.30
| prevparent = 1.20.15
| prev = Preview 1.20.20.21
| next = Preview 1.20.20.23
| nextparent = 1.20.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.20.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.20.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.30]]{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.20.20 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.30|1.20.30]].<ref>{{tweet|cornerhardmc|1691973191923806387|We're actually going to move all the 1.20.20 changes into 1.20.30. More info to come in an upcoming changelog.|August 16, 2023}}</ref>}}, released on July 20, 2023<ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/17785920851725-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-20-22</ref>, which brings more parity from {{JE}} and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Released the following components out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.30 and higher:
** <code>minecraft:wearable</code> item component.
** <code>minecraft:digger</code> item component.
* Exposed <code>DimensionType</code> to scripting.
* Exposed the following feature placement rules:
** <code>minecraft:aggregate_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:cave_carver_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:fossil_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:geode_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:growing_plant_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:multiface_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:nether_cave_carver_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:ore_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:partially_exposed_blob_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:scatter_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:search_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:sequence_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:single_block_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:snap_to_surface_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:structure_template_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:surface_relative_threshold_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:tree_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:underwater_cave_carver_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:vegetation_patch_feature</code>.
** <code>minecraft:weighted_random_feature</code>.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|camera}}'''
* Now is available without using the "Experimental Cameras" experimental toggle.

'''{{cmd|recipe}}'''
* Changed the <code>victim: target</code> argument to <code>player: target</code>.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Crawling]]'''
* The ability to crawl is now available without using the "Crawling" experimental toggle.

=== General ===
'''[[Experiments]]'''
* Removed the "Crawling" experimental toggle.

'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added the "Recipe unlocking" option to the advanced section in the "[[Create New World]]" screen. (<code>recipesUnlock</code> game rule)
* "Text to Speech" narrator now read the disconnected message in the game menu when opened without an internet connection.
* Renamed the "Manage" button to "Cancel" in "Options" > "Subscriptions".

=== Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Removed the <code>server-authoritative-sound</code> bool from <code>server.properties</code>.
* Deprecate <code>on_dig</code> parameters from <code>minecraft:digger</code> item component in JSON formats 1.20.20 and higher.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Experimental Cameras" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Added camera scripting APIs for the following APIs: 
** <code>setCamera()</code>: to set the camera to a specified preset.
** <code>fade()</code>: to start a camera fade.
** <code>clear()</code>: to clear the current settings on the camera.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Removed <code>MinecraftBlockTypes</code> defined in <code>@minecraft/server</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemUseBeforeEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemUseOnBeforeEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemUseAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemUseOnAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemStartUseOnAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemStopUseAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemStopUseOnAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemCompleteUseAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemReleaseUseAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ItemStartUseAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Moved <code>DimensionLocation</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Renamed <code>PositionInUnloadedChunkError</code> to <code>LocationInUnloadedChunkError</code> and moved it to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* Renamed <code>PositionOutOfWorldBoundariesError</code> to <code>LocationOutOfWorldBoundariesError</code> and moved it to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved <code>getSpawnPoint</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved <code>setSpawnPoint</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved <code>getDefaultSpawnLocation</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved <code>setDefaultSpawnLocation</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
* <code>WorldAfterEvents</code>
** Removed <code>projectileHit</code>.
** Added <code>projectileHitBlock</code>.
** Added <code>projectileHitEntity</code>.
* Added class <code>ProjectileHitBlockAfterEvent</code> export class:
** <code>ProjectileHitBlockAfterEvent { readonly dimension: Dimension; readonly hitVector: Vector3; readonly location: Vector3; readonly projectile: Entity; readonly source?: Entity; getBlockHit(): BlockHitInformation; }</code>
* Added class <code>ProjectileHitEntityAfterEvent</code> export class:
** <code>ProjectileHitEntityAfterEvent { readonly dimension: Dimension; readonly hitVector: Vector3; readonly location: Vector3; readonly projectile: Entity; readonly source?: Entity; getEntityHit(): EntityHitInformation; }</code>
* Released Scoreboard API's from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Updated <code>Scoreboard.getObjective</code>, <code>getObjectiveAtDisplaySlot</code>, and <code>clearObjectiveAtDisplaySlot</code> to <code>return '| undefined '</code>.
* Released <code>isValid()</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.4.0</code> for the following classes:
** <code>Block</code>
** <code>Container</code>
** <code>Entity</code>
** <code>Player</code>
** <code>SimulatedPlayer</code>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.20.22 Preview
|;old
|159217|Vignette overlaps hotbar and other HUD elements with "Fancy Graphics" enabled.
|166152|Book and quills text line breaks are erased when previous text is changed [on iOS and iPadOS].
|;From 1.20.0
|168805|Some brushing sounds missing.
|;From 1.20.10
|170969|Swimming mechanics have been altered to where you have to look up at the sky to take a breath.
|;From the previous development versions
|172381|Top snow has inconsistent collision for dropped items.
|172402|{{cmd|recipe}} target argument is called "victim".
|172429|Structure void can't be targetted.
|172956|No "Recipes Unlock" option in the "Create New World" screen.
|otherissuescount=1}}
'''Others'''
* Xbox: Fixed missing low disk space warning.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{fnlist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.20.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.20.22]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.20.22]]
[[lzh:基石版一點二〇點二〇點二二]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.20.22]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.20.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.20.22]]