{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.70.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.70.23.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
951907023 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961907023 (x86, 31)<br>
971907023 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981907023 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| date = '''Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - February 15, 2023<br>'''Android''' - February 18, 2023
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.7023.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.70.23<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.7023.70
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.70.23.zip Windows]
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.70.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.70
| prevparent = 1.19.63
| prev = Preview 1.19.70.22
| next = Preview 1.19.70.24
| nextparent = 1.19.71
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.70.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.70.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.70]], released on February 15 and 18, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/13133616291981|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.70.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 15, 2023}}</ref> which adds the [[Sniffer]], [[Archaeology]], and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|summon}}'''
* Re-added rotation arguments for the {{cmd|summon}} [[command]].
** New syntax: {{cmd|summon <entityType: EntityType> [spawnPos: x y z] [yRot: value] [xRot: value] [spawnEvent: string] [nameTag: string]}}
** Previous syntax: {{cmd|summon <entityType: EntityType> [spawnPos: x y z] [spawnEvent: string] [nameTag: string]}}

=== General ===
'''[[Experiments]]'''
* Added the "Sniffer" experimental toggle.
** Enables all sniffer-related features.
*** The [[sniffer]], [[torchflower]]s, and [[Torchflower Seeds|torchflower seeds]].

=== Technical ===
'''JSON'''
* Released block properties and permutations out of experimental in JSON formats 1.19.70 and higher.
** Added a content warning when loading world with more than 65536 custom block permutations. Custom block permutation counts are logged in debug log.

== Changes ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Horse]] breeding'''
* When breeding horses, the baby horse now has a chance of being better than its parents in speed, jump strength, and health.
** This change is intended to make horse breeding a viable way of getting great horses, if a player starts with good parents and puts in enough time and [[golden carrot]]s.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Next Major Update", "Sniffer", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Additions ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Decorated Pot]]'''
* Can be crafted with any 4 pottery shards or [[brick]] items, shaped rhombic.
** The type of crafting material decides which picture would occur on the certain side of the crafted decorated pot.
*** The possible pictures are decided by the type of pottery shard which is used to craft.
*** The brick item will not have a picture.
* Very fragile, and very easy to break it:
** Will break apart into its crafting materials when breaking it using any block-breaking tool.
** Will drop itself when breaking it using empty hand.

'''[[Suspicious Sand]]'''
* Generates in [[Desert Pyramid|desert temples]] and [[desert well]]s.
* Brushing the suspicious sand with a brush will extract objects.

'''[[Torchflower]]'''
* A new type of flower, grows from torchflower seeds.
** Only drop itself when broken.
** Can be crafted into a [[orange dye]].
** Can be planted in the [[flower pot]].

==== Items ====
'''[[Brush]]'''
* An item which can be used to brush things.
* Can be crafted with 3 [[string]] and 2 [[stick]]s, like the shape of crafting [[pickaxe]]s.

'''[[Pottery Shard]]'''
* They have pictures on them.
* They cannot be crafted and are only found by brushing suspicious sand.

'''[[Spawn Egg]]'''
* Added sniffer spawn egg.

'''[[Torchflower Seeds]]'''
* A new type of seed, which can be planted on [[farmland]] and grows into a torchflower.
* Can only be obtained if a sniffer digs up a torchflower seed.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Sniffer]]'''
* A new passive friendly mob, which is the mob vote winner of [[Minecraft Live 2022]], and considered as the first "ancient" mob.
* Cannot spawn naturally.
* Cannot be tempted or tamed.
* Often sniff in the air and occasionally dig for torchflower seeds.
* Can be bred with torchflower seeds.
* Drop [[moss block]] when killed.

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* <code>BlockPermutation</code>
** Added method <code>matches(blockName: string, properties?: BlockProperties): boolean</code> which is used to match a block with optional states against a ''BlockPermutation''.
** Added method <code>withProperty(name: string, value: boolean | number | string): BlockPermutation;</code> which returns a new block permutation with a given property set to a specific value. Throws if the provided data cannot be resolved as a valid block permutation.
** Added function <code>static resolve(blockName: string, properties?: BlockProperties): BlockPermutation</code> which resolve a ''BlockPermutation'' from a block name and optional states. Throws if the provided data cannot be resolved as a valid block permutation.
* <code>BlockProperties</code>
** Added new class to expose ''BlockPropertyType''.
* <code>BlockPropertyType</code>
** Added new class to track "definitional" data about block properties. This is how you can find which values are valid for each block property.

=== Changes ===
==== World generation ====
'''[[Desert Pyramid]]'''
* Now includes a new room filled with [[sand]] and [[suspicious sand]].
* Some sands will appear exposed, and can be found at the same height as the [[blue terracotta]].

'''[[Desert Well]]'''
* Now includes suspicious sands under its water.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed a bug where an Allay holding a Lead wasn't able to be leashed unless the player held a full stack of 64 Leads in hand.
'''Audio'''
* Sounds from all Button types and Lever are now controlled by "Blocks" slider in Audio Settings. ({{bug|MCPE-166420}})
* The sound volume of Ghasts will now fade the further they are from the player. ({{bug|MCPE-35222}})
'''Blocks'''
* Fixed a bug where Hoppers would not pull in items after being unpowered from Redstone. ({{bug|MCPE-166434}})
'''General'''
* The swap item animation now plays when switching hotbar items of the same type with the same durability.
'''Graphical'''
* The loading screen no longer flickers when entering the Nether in immersive VR mode.
'''Items'''
* Fixed loaded Crossbow staying loaded after shooting. ({{bug|MCPE-166827}})
'''Mobs'''
* Villagers will now emit anger particles when hit by a player outside of a village.
* Horses cannot be pushed over Fences covered by Carpets anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-164717}})
'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug where moving the player or camera with a controller while text-to-speech for UI was turned on would cause the narrator to say "X of Y".
* Fixed a bug where the Edit World screen couldn't be opened for a world if the corresponding world directory had a space in it. ({{bug|MCPE-166763}})
</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.70 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.70.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.70.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.70.23]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.70.23]]