{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock Edition
|image=Bedrock 1.8.0.14.png
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' November 7, 2018
|parent=1.8.0
|prevparent=1.7.1
|prev=beta 1.8.0.13
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.8.0.14''' is the fifth and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0]], released on November 7, 2018,<ref>{{link|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360019199871|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.8.0.14 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 7, 2018}}</ref> which fixes several bugs.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed an issue that could cause the game to crash on launch.
* Fixed a crash that was sometimes triggered by picking up a banner in multiplayer. ({{bug|MCPE-38690}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when a player dropped an item.
* Fixed the bug that would cause the game to freeze when resumed on some devices.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when minimizing and resuming the game at the main menu.
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Items are no longer duplicated in the crafting grid when reloading the world. ({{bug|MCPE-38639}})
* Bamboo now drops as an item when broken by the player. ({{bug|MCPE-38674}})
* Mob spawners now spawn mobs once again. ({{bug|MCPE-38706}})
* Skin picker should now load in skins correctly with a stable internet connection.
* Further optimization tweaks for marketplace images.
* Fixed the walking animation for skeletons and strays. ({{bug|MCPE-38738}})
* Fixed the size of the axe held by vindicators.
* Fixed the side texture of guardians.
* Replaced the missing salmon tails.
* Fixed the tail position of ocelots chasing chickens.
* Fixed the wing flapping animation of chickens.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.14]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.14]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.8.0.14]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.14]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.8.0.14]]
[[ru:Beta 1.8.0.14 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.8.0.14]]