{{dangerous version|Chunks below Y+0 can become corrupted.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-153316}}</ref>|type=file-damage|version=development|edition=Bedrock}}
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.30.28 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.30.28.png
|image3=Bedrock 1.18.30.29.png
|type=Preview
|internal=;Beta
'''Windows''': 1.18.3028.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.3028.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.30.28<br>
'''Preview'''
'''Windows''': 1.18.3029.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.3029.70<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': 1.18.30.29<br>
|parent=1.18.30
|date='''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''': March 23, 2022
|prevparent=1.18.12
|prev=Preview 1.18.30.27
|next=Preview 1.18.30.31
|nextparent=1.18.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.30.28''' (Windows, Android, Xbox) or '''Preview 1.18.30.29''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the ninth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.30]], released on March 23, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/5005390908301|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.18.30.28/29|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 23, 2022}}</ref> which adds [[boat with chest]] and [[deep dark]] behind [[experimental gameplay]], and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Hoglin]]s'''
* Baby hoglins now attack players again.

=== Technical ===
'''Data-Driven Items'''
* Added an optional {{cd|mob_amount}} parameter to the Damage Event Response that specifies a unique damage amount when used by mobs.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Wild Update" and "Vanilla Experiments" experimental toggle.

=== Additions ===
==== Items ====
'''[[Boat with Chest]]'''
* Function similarly to [[minecart with chest]]s, but in boats instead, so player can take a journey on the water and carry things.
* Crafted by combining a [[chest]] with any [[boat]].

==== World generation ====
'''[[Deep Dark]]'''
* New [[biome]] at the "deepest depths of the world".
* Tends to generate under continental/mountainous areas, exclusively within the [[deepslate]] layer between Y=-1 and Y=-64.
* The floor is covered in [[sculk]] and contains all [[sculk]]-related blocks.
* With the exception of [[monster spawner]]s, no mobs other than wardens can spawn there, similar to [[mushroom field]]s.

=== Changes ===
==== Items ====
'''[[Copper Horn]]'''
* Changed the texture.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Allay]]'''
* Now has a delay for picking new items after delivering items.
* Now only pick up the exact same item it holds.
* Now stay close to a [[note block]] that has been played near it.
* Are now immune to damage from its owner.

== Fixes ==
'''Mobile Controls'''
* Fixed issue where sensitivity was too low in new touch control schemes ({{bug|MCPE-152985}}).
* Fixed a case where the "Highlight Always On" option was visible for the 'Touch' interaction mode ({{bug|MCPE-152972}}).
* Fixed issue where buttons for new mobile control schemes were too large and too high on some devices.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed underwater lava lakes not turned into obsidian during world generation ({{bug|MCPE-128022}}).
* Healing no longer causes a mob to be immune to damage ({{bug|MCPE-152957}}).
* Fixed tick range check excluding chunks that were actually in range.
* Breaking a layer of snow placed in the same block as a flower no longer destroys the flower ({{bug|MCPE-151512}}).

'''Hoglins'''
* Baby hoglins now attack players ({{bug|MCPE-152577}}).

'''User Interface'''
* Double tapping the crouch button will no longer toggle fly mode ({{bug|MCPE-152973}}).
* Fixed issue where sprint state was not resumed after hitting an obstacle when holding the {{key|Ctrl}} key ({{bug|MCPE-152979}}).</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.18.30 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.30.28]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.30.28]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.18.30.29]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.18.30.29]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock Preview 1.18.30.29]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.30.28]]