{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.100.54.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.10054.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.10054.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.100.54<br>
|build=4631967
|parent=1.16.100
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' September 3, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.61
|prev=beta 1.16.100.53
|next=beta 1.16.100.55
|nextparent=1.16.101
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.100.54''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.100]], released on September 3, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360048673272|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.100.54 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 3, 2020}}</ref> which brought more parity from {{el|je}}, [[RenderDragon]] to the Windows 10 port, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|fog}}'''
* Used for managing active fog settings for players.

=== General ===
'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added new splashes:
** This parrot is no more! It has ceased to be!
** Music by [[Lena Raine]]!
** Aww man!
** #minecraftfarms
** And my pickaxe!
** Envision! Create! Share!
** Fabulous graphics!
** Also try [[Minecraft Dungeons]]!
** Vanilla!
** May contain traces of citrus!
** [[Zoglin]]!?

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bee Nest]]s'''
* Now appear yellow on [[maps]].

'''[[Iron Chain|Chain]]s'''
* Can now be placed in all orientations.

'''[[Lantern]]s'''
* Can now be [[waterlogged]].
** Also applies to [[soul lantern]]s.

'''[[Nether gold ore]]'''
* Now uses the "nether" color on [[maps]].

'''[[Soul Campfire]]s'''
* Now deal double the damage that normal [[campfires]] deal.
* Now drop [[Soul Soil]] instead of [[Charcoal]] when mined.

'''[[Sweet Berry Bush]]es'''
* Now deal [[damage]] to [[mobs]] and [[players]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Mushroom|Brown and Red Mushroom]]s'''
* Can now be placed and grown on both types of [[nylium]].

'''[[Nether Fungus|Crimson and Warped Fungus]]'''
* Can now be placed on [[mycelium]].
** Will still only grow into a [[huge fungus]] on the respective [[nylium]].

'''[[Compass|Lodestone Compass]]es'''
* Can now be [[enchanted]] with [[Curse of Vanishing]].

'''[[Totem of Undying]]'''
* Now gives [[Fire Resistance]] I instead of II.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Hoglin]]s'''
* Now afraid of [[Respawn Anchor]]s.
* Baby Hoglins now deal appropriate damage.
* Baby Hoglin now have drops after being killed by the player.

'''[[Iron Golem]]s'''
* Now attacks [[Hoglin]]s.

'''[[Piglin]]s'''
* Now drop their inventory when "zombified".
* Can now equip [[Shield]]s, [[Elytra]], [[Turtle Shell]]s, and various [[Mob Head]]s.

'''[[Piglin Brute]]s'''
* Now drops 20 experience points instead of 10.
* No longer spawns with enchanted [[axe|golden axe]]s.

'''[[Strider]]s'''
* Now has the correct health of {{hp|20}} instead of {{hp|15}} to match ''Java Edition''.

'''[[Strider]] Jockeys'''
* The zombified piglin riding a strider now spawns holding a [[warped fungus on a stick]].

'''[[Zoglin]]s'''
* Now take damage from Instant Health effect and heal from Instant Damage effect.
* Baby Zoglin now have drops after being killed by the Player.

=== World Generation ===
'''[[The Nether|Nether Biome]]s'''
* [[Soul Sand Valley]] now have ceilings covered with Soul Soil and Soul Sand.
* [[Basalt Delta]] now have Basalt ceilings.

'''[[Ruined portal]]s'''
* Now can generate with 4–12 [[glistering melon]]s instead of only one.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Bartering]]'''
* Various weights and item amounts have been changed to match the {{el|java}} with the exception of [[spectral arrows]].
* [[Blackstone]], [[arrow]]s, and [[water bottle]]s can now be obtained through bartering.
* [[Hoe|Netherite Hoe]], [[Glowstone Dust]] and [[Magma Cream]] can no longer be obtained from bartering.

'''[[Enchanting]]'''
* [[Soul Speed]] are no longer obtainable from fishing, chest loot, or raids.

'''[[Map]] colors'''
* Map colors have been updated accordingly.
** Warped stems, stripped warped stems, and warped planks now use the {{cd|WARPED_STEM}} color instead of the {{cd|COLOR_CYAN}} color.
** Warped hyphae and stripped warped hyphae now use the {{cd|WARPED_HYPHAE}} color instead of the {{cd|COLOR_CYAN}} color.
** Warped nylium now uses the {{cd|WARPED_NYLIUM}} color instead of the {{cd|COLOR_CYAN}} color.
** Warped fungi and twisting vines now use the {{cd|COLOR_CYAN}} color instead of the {{cd|PLANT}} color.
** Warped wart blocks now use the {{cd|WARPED_WART_BLOCK}} color instead of the {{cd|COLOR_CYAN}} color.
** Crimson stems and stripped crimson stems now use the {{cd|CRIMSON_STEM}} color instead of the {{cd|COLOR_RED}} color.
** Crimson hyphae and stripped crimson hyphae now use the {{cd|CRIMSON_HYPHAE}} color instead of the {{cd|COLOR_RED}} color.
** Crimson nylium now uses the {{cd|CRIMSON_NYLIUM}} color instead of the {{cd|COLOR_RED}} color.
** Crimson fungi and weeping vines now use the {{cd|NETHER}} color instead of the {{cd|PLANT}} color.
** Crimson planks now use the {{cd|CRIMSON_STEM}} color instead of the {{cd|NETHER}} color.

=== General ===
'''[[Options]]'''
* Removed the "Particle Render Distance" options as it became redundant with {{cmd|fog}}.

'''[[RenderDragon]]'''
* Windows 10 now uses the new rendering engine [[RenderDragon]].

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Removed the "mixer.com/minecraft" splash, as [[Wikipedia:Mixer (service)|Mixer]] streaming services is no longer available.

'''Technical'''
* The {{cd|MoveToLiquidGoal}} has been changed to use data for its target block.
* Striders now correctly executes the {{cd|move_to_liquid goal}}.

* {{cd|minecraft:behavior.send_event}}
** No longer uses -1 in {{cd|max_activation_range}} as a value to indicate unlimited range, the default has been changed to 32.
** Added content log warnings for when {{cd|min_activation_range}} and {{cd|max_activation_range}} is less than 0 
** Added content log warnings for when {{cd|min_activation_range}} is greater than {{cd|max_activation_range}}

* {{cd|minecraft:behavior.summon_entity}}
** No longer uses -1 in {{cd|max_activation_range}} as a value to indicate unlimited range, the default has been changed to 32 
** Added content log warnings for when {{cd|min_activation_range}} and {{cd|max_activation_range}} is less than 0 
** Added content log warnings for when {{cd|min_activation_range}} is greater than {{cd|max_activation_range}}

== Fixes ==
'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed issue where the game could crash if player joined the game in a sleeping state. ({{bug|MCPE-79465}}) 
* Fixed a bug which would cause a crash after killing an Elder Guardian or Guardian. ({{bug|MCPE-94176}}) 
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when using fireworks to propel elytra.

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* It's now possible to place chains so that they are aligned horizontally.
* Floor and ceiling surface generation now correctly match Java.
** Soul Sand Valleys now have ceilings covered with Soul Soil and Soul Sand. ({{bug|MCPE-69159}})
** Basalt Deltas now have Basalt ceilings. ({{bug|MCPE-79608}})
* Striders with riders can now be tempted.
* Piglins now drop their inventory when "zombified". ({{bug|MCPE-81503}}) 
* Piglin Brutes now give 20xp instead of 10 when killed by player. ({{bug|MCPE-94089}}) 
* Allow Piglin to preserve equipment when zombified. ({{bug|MCPE-83683}}) 
* Lanterns can now be placed underwater and do not pop when a water source block is placed on them.
* The Piglin in Bedrock will now offer similar bartering items as it does in Java ({{bug|MCPE-92662}}) 
* Soul Fire now doesn't melt snow or ice blocks ({{bug|MCPE-74901}}) 
* Soul Campfires now does twice as much damage as regular campfires ({{bug|MCPE-81499}}) 
* Zombified Piglin is no longer floating above the strider while riding ({{bug|MCPE-80188}}) 
* Warped Fungus can now grow in Crimson Forest on Bedrock.
* Piglins can no longer drop Nether Brick Blocks after bartering on Bedrock ({{bug|MCPE-74395}}) 
* Baby Zoglin and Baby Hoglin now have drops after being killed by the Player.
* Wither Skeletons now automatically attack Piglins and Piglin Brutes ({{bug|MCPE-65456}}) 
* Hoglins will now flee from Respawn Anchors ({{bug|MCPE-71534}}) 
* Iron Golems now attack Hoglins on Bedrock ({{bug|MCPE-73838}}) 
* Zoglins now take damage from Healing effect and heal from Harming effect.
* If Ruined Portal chests contain glistening melon slices they no longer contain only a single melon slice (MCPE-92675)
* Zombified Piglins that are jockeys on Striders now hold a Warped Fungus on a Stick.
* Piglin Brutes no longer have enchanted Golden Axes to have parity with Java.
* Nether Sprouts can be used in the Composter again ({{bug|MCPE-78026}}) 
* Soul Speed Enchant found in chests is now limited to Bastion Remnant chests.
* Netherite armor items no longer takes durability loss from player standing on magma ({{bug|MCPE-76532}})
* Soul Campfires now drop Soul Soil instead of Charcoal when mined ({{bug|MCPE-74709}})
* Strider health is now on parity with the Java version ({{bug|MCPE-76425}})
* Piglins can now equip Shields, Elytra, Turtle Shells, and various Mob Heads. ({{bug|MCPE-75863}}) 
* Piglin Brutes no longer become angry from specific blocks being broken, they still always attack a player on sight though ({{bug|MCPE-94106}}) 
* Zombified baby piglins now correctly display items held in their hands 
* Quick crafting Piston will now work with Warped planks and Crimson planks ({{bug|MCPE-87659}}) 
* Baby Hoglins now deal appropriate damage.
* Piglins now spawn naturally in Nether Wastes on Peaceful difficulty.

'''General'''
* Updated Splash texts and loading screen tips 
* Added screen reader support to gamepad helpers on main menu 
* Corrected map color representation for multiple blocks ({{bug|MCPE-19228}}, {{bug|MCPE-83797}}) 
* Nether and Warped wart blocks are no longer in an unfolding section in the creative menu 
* Totem of Undying now applies the correct effects upon dying ({{bug|MCPE-52364}})
* Loading screen hints now have punctuation ({{bug|MCPE-85381}}) 

'''Gameplay'''
* Mobs can no longer power Minecarts they stand in ({{bug|MCPE-46804}}) 
* Fixed a bug where the player and mobs wouldn't take damage when walking through sweet berry bushes 
* Slimes can climb ladders again 
* Fixed bug where ladders were not displayed in special cases when placed next to each other 
* Killing mobs that have armor equipped with ranged weapons now result in armor loot ({{bug|MCPE-44408}}) 
* Compass with custom name retains its name when linked to a Lodestone 
* Lodestone Compasses can now be enchanted with the Curse of Vanishing using an Anvil ({{bug|MCPE-74016}}) 
* Compasses with Curse of Vanishing now retain their enchantment when linked to a Lodestone 
* Slimes now spawn in slime chunks inside frozen biomes ({{bug|MCPE-49303}})
* Iron pickaxe can now be dropped during raids ({{bug|MCPE-44417}})
* Brown and Red Mushrooms can now be grown into huge mushrooms on Nylium 
* Crimson and warped fungus can now be placed on Mycelium 

'''Graphical'''
* Striders now have a separate texture mapping for each leg, and their leg textures are properly mirrored 
* Created an updated biomes_client.json file for 1.16.100 that links each biome to a fog definition identifier
* Created {{cmd|fog}} command for managing active fog settings for players; these fog settings override fog driven from the client such as biome location of player camera 
* Created a json file for each fog definition which contains the new {{cd|fog_start}}, {{cd|fog_end}}, {{cd|fog_color}}, and {{cd|render_distance_type}} settings for parity with previous data and hardcoded values 
* Added child object "volumetric" which contains {{cd|density}} and {{cd|media_coefficients}} objects. These hold the data values used for the volumetric fog.

'''Technical'''
* Molang Script Expression {{cd|query.spellcolor}}
** Fixed a difference with the default return type of the script function, which differed from the usual return type 
* SendEventGoal
** Fixed a crash that could occur if the SendEventGoal is defined with incomplete json fields 
** Fixed a crash that could occur if a SendEventGoal stage is defined with a delay of 0.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.54]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.54]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.100.54]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.54]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.100.54]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.100.54 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.100.54]]