{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.2.3
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = January 7, 2026
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 26.0.27|26.0.27]]
| prevparent = 1.2.0
| prev = 1.2.2
| next = 1.2.4
| nextparent = 
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.2.3''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on January 7, 2026.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/288|title=Release 1.2.3 (1.26.0.27)|website=GitHub|date=January 7, 2026}}</ref><ref>
{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/42482730418445-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-26-0-27|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.26.0.27|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 7, 2026}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added {{cd|getDefaultProperties}}, {{cd|popPropertiesById}}, {{cd|pushPropertiesById}} and {{cd|updatePropertiesById}} functions to Cursor API to manage stateful properties.
* Added {{cd|dimensionId}} and {{cd|ignoreEditorModeVisibilityOverride}} to the Widget API to control widget visibility without manual handling.
* Added a {{cd|drawerPane}} API property to {{cd|IRootPropertyPane}} for displaying a split-view drawer overlaid on the root pane's contents.
* Added a {{cd|style}} API property to {{cd|IPropertyItemOptionsBase}} for overriding default styles of items.
* Added 3-point selection mode enabled by default (shift-click to make a 3D volume selection), added '2-Point Selection' toggle to disable.

== Changes ==
* Updated {{cd|IListPanePropertyItem}} to dynamically adjust its size based on the number of entries until the maximum height is reached, unless the optional {{cd|fixedHeight}} property is set
* Updated {{cd|LayoutAlignment}} API enum values to be {{cd|Start}} and {{cd|End}}, instead of {{cd|Left}} and {{cd|Right}}
* Updated {{cd|LayoutDirection}} API with {{cd|PaneLayoutType}}, and {{cd|Horizontal}} property will now be treated as a single row
* Updated Grapple tool so it will work within the full view distance

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug that caused Navigation panel selected location to not mark the list entry.
* Fixed a bug that caused the input field focus highlight to remain after a drag operation.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.2.3]]