{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.10.22 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.10.22.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.1022.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.1022.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.10.22<br>
|parent=1.17.10
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': June 9, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.2
|prev=beta 1.17.10.21
|next=beta 1.17.10.23
|nextparent=1.17.11
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.10.22''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.10]], released on June 9, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4402696446989|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.10.22 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=June 9, 2021}}</ref> which added [[candle]]s, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Candle]]'''
* Crafted with [[honeycomb]] and [[string]].
* Comes with 16 dyed types and a yellowish non-dyed type. 
* Can be lit by any item that produces fire.
* Up to 4 can be placed in a single block, similar to [[sea pickle]]s, for a maximum light level of 12.
** Only candles of the same color can be placed on the same block.
* Only one can be placed on an uneaten cake and lit.
** If any of the cake is consumed, the candle pops off.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|dialogue}}'''
* Used to create multi-page dialogues with branching narrative for NPCs via dialogue JSON files.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Axolotl]]s '''
* Now only spawn in total darkness.

=== Technical ===
'''GameTest Framework'''
* Renamed <code>World.event.weatherChanged</code> to <code>World.event.changeWeather</code>
* Added event <code>World.event.addEffect</code>
** Fires when an effect is applied to an entity.
* Added event <code>World.event.createEntity</code>
** Fires when an entity is added to the world.
* Removed function <code>World.addEventListener</code>
* Changed function <code>getDuration()</code> to property <code>duration</code>
* Changed function <code>getAmplifier()</code> to property <code>amplifier</code>
* Added property <code>displayName</code>
** Gets the display name of the effect

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Falling Anvils and Stalactites now deal damage to mobs when landing in liquid
* Fixed a bug where players going through Cobwebs would take fall damage before hitting the ground ({{bug|MCPE-121550}})
* Descending through Powder Snow with touch controls now uses the same button as descending through Scaffolding
* Vanilla Parity: Empty Buckets can no longer be used to collect Fish

'''Mobs'''
* Axolotls now only spawn in complete darkness
* Iron Golems and Evokers are no longer sometimes aggressive on Peaceful difficulty ({{bug|MCPE-47012}})
* Glow Squid now darkens to match the surrounding light level when hurt ({{bug|MCPE-121754}})
* When Goats are performing a ram attack, mobs will no longer retaliate against the Goats ({{bug|MCPE-129619}})
* Fixed a warning that could appear in splitscreen when encountering Guardians

'''Character Creator'''
* Featured item thumbnails now remain within the featured items window
* The "Choose New Skin" button now shows up even when there is no imported custom skin ({{bug|MCPE-128971}})
* The "Choose New Skin" button no longer disappears after selecting the slim custom option
* Fixed an issue that was causing the player's head to not animate properly with emotes ({{bug|MCPE-126902}})

'''Technical'''
* Fixed experimental 'query.target' to work on client-side queries
* Players will now be given a content error when custom recipes are invalid
* Renamed {{cd|minecraft:scaffolding_climber}} to {{cd|minecraft:block_climber}}, it now processes climbing both Scaffolding and Powder Snow</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.22]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.10.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.10.22]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.10.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.10.22]]