{{dangerous version|Sub chunks below Y{{=}}0 would not save properly causing blocks to be deleted and terrain to be shifted down upon updating for worlds with the experiments toggle turned on.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-139665||[Experimental] Massive chunk loading error from Y{{=}} -2 to -64 in new world|Fixed}}</ref>|type=file-damage|version=development|edition=Bedrock}}
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.30.23 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.30.23.png
|type=Beta
|build=7012635
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.3023.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.3023.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.30.23<br>
|parent=1.17.30
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': August 25, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.11
|prev=beta 1.17.30.22
|next=beta 1.17.30.24
|nextparent=1.17.32
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.30.23''' is the eighth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.30]], released on August 25, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4407848671117|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.30.23 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=August 25, 2021}}</ref><ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-beta-1-17-30-23|Minecraft Beta 1.17.30.23|25 August 2021|Jay Wells}}</ref> which added multinoise world generation from [[Java Edition 1.18 Experimental Snapshot 1]], and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Campfire]]s and [[Soul Campfire]]s'''
* Can now stack to 64.

=== Technical ===
'''Molang'''
* Added experimental queries for item cooldowns: 'query.is_cooldown_type', 'query.cooldown_time', and 'query.cooldown_time_remaining'.
* Updated many Molang content errors to specify which operator or query was involved.

'''Data-Driven Items'''
* Updated documentation for 'IconItemComponent' and it now provides a list of all IDs for the 'legacy_id' field.

'''Data-Driven Sounds'''
* Removed the "replace" element from 'sound_definitions.json' for being ambiguous in its usage (and was never used).

'''Gameplay'''
* Data-driven blocks can now be added to the Creative menu.
* Knockback Roar is no longer stronger than it used to be.

== Experimental ==
These changes are accessible by enabling the "[[Caves & Cliffs]]" experimental toggle.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Deep Warm Ocean]]'''
* Now generates naturally.

'''Noodle [[cave]]s'''
* A thinner, squigglier, tighter variant of spaghetti caves.
* These are an improved version of the mesh caves announced around Minecraft Live.

'''[[Overworld]]'''
* Now uses the multi-noise biome source type.

'''[[Ore vein]]s'''
*Long and rare [[ore]] formations.
*[[Copper ore]] veins mixed with [[granite]] and [[raw copper block]] generate above Y=0.
*[[Iron ore]] veins mixed with [[tuff]] and [[raw iron block]] generate below Y=0.

'''Sub-[[biome]]s'''
* [[Forest#Wooded Hills|Wooded hills]], [[Birch Forest#Birch Forest Hills|birch forest hills]], [[Birch Forest#Tall Birch Hills|tall birch hills]], [[Taiga#Taiga Hills|taiga hills]], [[Taiga#Taiga Mountains|taiga mountains]], [[Mountains#Gravelly Mountains+|gravelly mountains+]], [[Desert#Desert Hills|desert hills]], [[Desert#Desert Lakes|desert lakes]],  [[Savanna#Shattered Savanna Plateau|shattered savanna plateau]], [[Swamp#Swamp Hills|swamp hills]], [[Dark Forest#Dark Forest Hills|dark forest hills]], [[Snowy Tundra#Snowy Mountains|snowy mountains]], [[Snowy Taiga#Snowy Taiga Hills|snowy taiga hills]], [[Snowy Taiga#Snowy Taiga Mountains|snowy taiga mountains]], [[Jungle#Modified Jungle|modified jungle]], [[Jungle#Jungle Hills|jungle hills]], [[Jungle#Bamboo Jungle Hills|bamboo jungle hills]], [[Jungle#Modified Jungle Edge|modified jungle edge]], [[Giant Tree Taiga#Giant Tree Taiga Hills|giant tree taiga hills]], [[Giant Tree Taiga#Giant Spruce Taiga Hills|giant spruce taiga hills]], [[Badlands#Eroded Badlands|eroded badlands]], [[Badlands#Badlands Plateau|badlands plateau]], [[Badlands#Modified Badlands Plateau|modified badlands plateau]], [[Badlands#Modified Wooded Badlands Plateau|modified wooded badlands plateau]], and [[Mushroom Fields#Mushroom Field Shore|mushroom field shore]] biomes no longer generate naturally.
** It is unknown whetever [[Jungle#Jungle Edge|jungle edge]] are unused or not, as [[Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 5]] re-added it.
** The same with [[Savanna#Savanna Plateau|savanna plateau]], as it currently exist in [[Java Edition]] latest experimental snapshot.
** Whether any of the biomes listed will be re-added, or if any will be removed from the game outright, is currently unknown.

'''General'''
*[[Terrain]] generation is now independent from [[biomes]], with biomes adapting to whatever [[terrain]] they happen to generate throughout.<ref>{{YouTube link|6Ffu1gTEsVo|Minecraft 1.18 experimental snapshot|Henrik Kniberg|July 13, 2021|name=}}</ref>
**This allows for natural variation in the terrain of any individual biome, both in terms of shape and elevation.
***For example, [[Forest|forests]] and [[Desert|deserts]] could form up on a hill without needing a special biome just for that purpose.
**This additionally allows for smoother transitions between biomes.
*[[Terrain]] is now smoother and more extreme.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Campfires and Soul Campfires now stack in the inventory ({{bug|MCPE-67890}}).
* Candle now drops when Candle Cake is pushed by a Piston ({{bug|MCPE-130594}}).
* Collecting Fish or Axolotl no longer immediately releases them ({{bug|MCPE-44320}}).
* Renamed Structure Blocks will no longer have the incorrect data mode on creation ({{bug|MCPE-41625}}).
* Fall damage is no longer applied when falling into Scaffolding ({{bug|MCPE-108459}}).
* Fixed missing rightmost outline pixels on Signs when using §l for wide letters and Glow Ink Sac ({{bug|MCPE-137802}}).
* The Thorns enchantment now does Knockback to mobs ({{bug|MCPE-56212}}).
* Tweaked Iron Golem spawning logic to better match the Java Edition.
* Crimson Roots now have a small chance of growing on Warped Nylium blocks when using Bone Meal ({{bug|MCPE-83616}}).

'''Commands'''
* The {{cmd|spawnpoint}} command can now be used while the player is sleeping and outputs success when setting to the player's existing spawnpoint ({{bug|MCPE-106720}}).
* The camera shake command no longer shakes every player's screen when "@s" is used as the selector ({{bug|MCPE-120383}}).

'''Marketplace'''
* Fixed "CR" characters incorrectly appearing at the end of lines for some display languages.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug that could cause the Sign In button to appear behind the Marketplace button.
* Fixed the Noto Sans Smooth font on Windows and Xbox platforms with the Japanese locale to address legibility and usage of correct characters.

'''Technical'''
* Fixed movement prediction interpolating with invalid data in even more scenarios ({{bug|MCPE-108568}}).
* Fixed crash after firing a transform item event.
* Fixed particles not emitting when using animation controllers.
* Attachables that are visible in first person will no longer render backwards.</onlyinclude>

== See also ==
* [[Java Edition 1.18 Experimental Snapshot 1]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.30.23]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.30.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.30.23]]