{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.02}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.12.0.2.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.12.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>April 17, 2019
|prevparent=1.11.4
|next=beta 1.12.0.3
|nextparent=1.12.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.12.0.2''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]], released on April 17, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360027059411|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.12.0.2 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=April 17, 2019}}</ref> which adds new particles, reintroduces the [[camera]], and includes many changes relating to [[add-on]]s and map-making.

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Camera]]'''
* Has been re-added.
** Can only be obtained with the {{cmd|give}} command.
** Has no functionality.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Command]]s'''
* Added several new commands related to add-ons and map-making.{{more info}}

'''[[Gamerule]]s'''
* Added {{code|spawnradius}} gamerule.
** Allows [[player]]s to specify a radius circle for players to spawn in.
* Added {{code|sendcommandblockfeedback}}, {{code|maxcommandchainlength}} and {{code|commandblockoutput}} gamerules.
** Are related to delay option for commands.

'''[[Namespace]]s'''
* Added {{cd|minecraft:}} prefix for {{cmd|give}} to separate vanilla items  and add-on items.

'''[[World options]]'''
* Added a new "Respawn Radius" option in the game settings.

'''{{cmd|particle}}'''
* Added new particles:
** {{cd|minecraft:dragon_death_explosion_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:underwater_torch_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:dragon_destroy_block}}
** {{cd|minecraft:dragon_dying_explosion}}
** {{cd|minecraft:enchanting_table_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_concrete_powder_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_scaffolding_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_gravel_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_red_sand_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_sand_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:falling_dust_top_snow_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:huge_explosion_lab_misc_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:ice_evaporation_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:knockback_roar_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:lab_table_heatblock_dust_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:lab_table_misc_mystical_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:mob_block_spawn_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:note_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:obsidian_glow_dust_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:phantom_trail_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:stunned_emitter}}

=== General ===
'''Dedicated servers'''
* Enabled content logging on [[Bedrock Dedicated Server]]s.

'''Item IDs'''
* Item instance IDs can now be synchronized between clients and servers.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]]s'''
* Now have their own section in the [[Creative]] inventory, instead of under the [[chest]]s category. ({{bug|MCPE-43946}})

'''[[Cartography table]]s and [[lectern]]s'''
* Adjusted and added UI tooltips for both blocks.

'''[[Command block]]s'''
* Added auto complete to command blocks.
* Added a delay option to command blocks.
** A delay can be added to the command block using the new field. The ticks for this delay are in redstone ticks.

'''[[Seagrass]]'''
* Updated the texture brightness of seagrass to match {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-34795}})

'''[[Structure block]]s'''
* Now have an outline when placed.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Illager captain]]s'''
* Converting a normal [[pillager]] to a captain with the tag command now displays the [[banner]] correctly.
* Illager captains now drop banners correctly even if the world is reloaded.
* The [[Bad Omen]] effect is now only received when killing an illager captain, and not when dealing non-fatal damage with a [[bow]] or damage potion.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Villager [[trading]] UI no longer opens and closes if the [[player]] is standing too far away.
* Clerics can now correctly pathfind to their job sites.
* Villagers that are actively trading with players no longer run and hide if the [[raid]] bell rings.
* Added a sound to indicate when a villager does not want to trade, such as during a raid.
* Cured villagers now keep the jobs they had before becoming a [[zombie]]. ({{bug|MCPE-42348}})

'''[[Wandering trader]]s and [[zombie villager]]s'''
* Added new sounds.
'''[[NPC]]'''
* Dialog and changeable skins have now been removed from NPCs.
=== General ===
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Mob events can now be enabled and disabled in world templates.
* Animations and particles can be added without being linked to entities.
* Inventory, armor, and hand containers can be adapted through scripting.
* Sound effects can now be triggered by animation events.
* Added new {{cd|executeCommand}} to the Scripting API.
* Added Scripting events for interaction with items, for example:
** Item picked up
** Item dropped
** Carried item changed
* Added One-shot animation support, allowing the ability to execute a single animation on an entity.
* Particle emitters can now trigger scripting events.
* Updated documentation of actor events, to document client-side usage of actor events in resource packs.
* "Add block" components now use JSON schemas.
* Added a screen to view content log errors.
** The log screen can be opened using {{key|Ctrl}}+{{key|H}}, or by going to Settings and then Profile.
* Added code to allow static validation scripts to be run locally.
* Custom blocks can now be added through Scripting.
** This is currently still a "work in progress" feature, and more functionality will be added in future updates.
* Custom blocks can currently only be added through additional JSON scripting.
** Custom blocks can only be placed with slash commands.
* Added new data-driven particles:
** [[Llama]] Spit 
** Large Explosions 
** Colored Flames 
** [[Redstone Dust]]
** Falling Dust 
** [[Lava]]
** [[Enchanting Table]]
** [[Conduit]] 
* Added new data-driven animations:
** [[Wolves]]
** Fang Attack 
** [[Arrow]]s 
** [[Shulker Bullet]]s 
** [[Bow]]s 
** [[Water]]  
* Updated documentation to include a breaking changes section.
* Basic item related events have been exposed to the scripting API. This includes:
** {{cd|actor_acquired_item|actor_carried_item_changed|actor_dropped_item|actor_use_item|actor_equipped_armor|delimiter=list}}
* Basic inventory events have been exposed to the scripting API. This includes:
** {{cd|inventory_container|armor_container|hand_container|hotbar_container|delimiter=list}}
* New block events and two new APIs have been included to query for blocks. This includes:
** APIs
** {{cd|getBlock(Ticking Area, x, y, z)|getBlock(Ticking Area, PositionObject)|getBlocks(Ticking Area, x min, y min, z min, x max, y max, z max)|getBlocks(Ticking Area, Minimum PositionObject, Maximum PositionObject)|delimiter=list}}
** Events:
*** {{cd
|delimiter=list|list-level=***
|block_destruction_started|block_destruction_stopped|piston_moved_block|player_destroyed_block|player_placed_block|executeCommand API}}
** Allows the scripting API to get the result of a slash command.
* Event data API:
** Allows creators to create event data, register and pass it to the event function.
* Updated demo pack.
* [[Biome]] generation is now customizable via behavior packs.

'''[[Music]]'''
* Now plays when the keyboard shows up on the screen.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when switching players on Xbox.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game on some Windows 10 devices. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when certain interactive blocks (e.g. beds, chests, furnaces) are loading in when joining a realm. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when engaging in a fight with an elder guardian in an ocean monument. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when throwing a trident with Loyalty enchantment. 
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when exiting the game.

'''Performance'''
* Improved chunk loading performance in multiplayer. 
* Further improvements to performance when using selectors with commands.
* Cached resource packs no longer cause lag on Nintendo Switch. ({{bug|MCPE-36976}})

'''General'''
* Player permissions now apply correctly when more than one operator tries to adjust them.
* Arrows that are shot into blocks keep their position when reloading the world.
* Area of effect clouds no longer try to spawn excessive numbers of particles when time of day is changed. ({{bug|MCPE-39595}})
* Marketplace resource packs are now immediately applied after downloading in the world edit menu. ({{bug|MCPE-33121}})
* The 'Always Day' toggle now correctly animates and shows the correct setting. ({{bug|MCPE-43304}})
* Flowing water is no longer left behind after flowing over string. ({{bug|MCPE-36343}})
* After the fishing_hook is killed by command the player can now cast the hook again without having to right click twice. 
* The screen reader prompt no longer appears every time the player adjusts the network settings on Nintendo Switch. 
* Removed an unnecessary Xbox Live sign-in notification.

'''Gameplay'''
* Marketplace offers page can now show more than 25 items. 
* Items that are split between slots in the villager trade window still count as a total trade amount. 
* Blocks can once again be placed on unlit redstone ore. ({{bug|MCPE-44305}})
* World settings now sync correctly between different Xbox devices. 
* Only players who fought in a raid see and receive the Hero effect in realms now. 
* Bells now ring when hit with splash and lingering potions. 
* Mob spawners now only spawn mobs if the light level is below 7. ({{bug|MCPE-42427}})
* Cocoa beans now break and drop when pushed by pistons. ({{bug|MCPE-41868}})
* Fixed several related issues with end gateway portals. These should now teleport the player to the correct safe location when used. ({{bug|MCPE-43176}}, {{bug|MCPE-43177}}, {{bug|MCPE-19699}})
* Efficiency pickaxes now break packed ice at a faster rate. ({{bug|MCPE-23648}})
* Players that are being healed can still be knocked back by TNT.
* Villagers now keep their job when cured. ({{bug|MCPE-42348}})
* The grindstone now correctly combines and repairs two damaged items.
* The player can now interact with blocks with a charged crossbow on touch devices. 
* Fixed various scenarios where certain blocks couldn't be placed until the game was restarted.

'''World generation'''
* Fixed a bug on dedicated servers and realms which could cause the wrong block types to generate. 
* Tweaked the number of job sites in villages.

'''Mobs'''
* Vindicators can now path correctly over carpet during raids.
* The wither no longer plays its spawning animation when reloading a world. ({{bug|MCPE-32415}})
* Mobs no longer path-find over brewing stands.
* Mobs now spawn on double slabs. ({{bug|MCPE-30765}})
* Mobs no longer get stuck when pathfinding on ladders. ({{bug|MCPE-43034}})
* Evokers no longer move too fast in "move to village" goal.

'''Blocks'''
* Scaffolding can no longer be placed on conduit blocks, matching ''Java Edition''.
* The bell now swings towards a player when it is hit, matching ''Java Edition''. ({{bug|MCPE-42469}})

'''Items'''
* Dropped items no longer prevent minecarts from being placed on rails. 
* Empty glass bottles now stack correctly when removed from brewing stands. ({{bug|MCPE-42175}})
* Shields no longer appear too bright in item frames. ({{bug|MCPE-41222}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed a z-fighting texture issue on some villager skins.
* Corrected the position of leads on wolves.
* Noteblock particles now correctly correspond to the notes played. 
* Fixed missing zombie villager skin. 
* Farmland now has the correct side and bottom texture. ({{bug|MCPE-42746}})
* Fixed door and trapdoor texture issues. ({{bug|MCPE-43173}})
* Dyed leather horse armor color no longer affects other horse armor. ({{bug|MCPE-43230}})

'''User interface'''
* Adjusted cartography table UI to fit Android screens when using Classic UI. 

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Fixed a scripting bug that could cause the player to float.
* Pickblock (middle click) now works correctly on non-vanilla entities that have been added using add-ons. ({{bug|MCPE-38205}})
* {{cd|ScriptAttackComponent}} and {{cd|ScriptCollisionBoxComponent}} now correctly retrieve updated data. 
* Functions ran on a game loop now use an origin which has Game Master permissions, not Owner permissions. 
* Added a new constructor parameter to the {{cd|ServerCommandOrigin}} so that the function manager can create an instance with upgraded permissions.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.2]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.2]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.12.0.2]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.2]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 베타 1.12.0.2]]
[[pl:Beta 1.12.0.2]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.12.0.2]]
[[ru:Beta 1.12.0.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.12.0.2]]