{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.210.53 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.210.53.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21053.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21053.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.53<br>
|build=5146856
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' December 17, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=beta 1.16.210.51
|next=beta 1.16.210.54
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.53''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on December 17, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360053980592|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.53 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 17, 2020}}</ref> which brought changes to [[powder snow]], added full screen keyboard shortcut, and fixes bugs. This is the final beta released in 2020.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''[[Gamerule]]s'''
* <code>freezeDamage</code>
** Whether entities take damage from freezing inside of [[powder snow]].

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''Leather [[armor]]'''
* Wearing any piece of leather armor now prevents freezing entirely.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|clone}}, {{cmd|fill}}, {{cmd|setblock}}'''
* Added new slash command options for passing in a list of block states to set on the block being spawned.

'''{{cmd|mixer}}'''
* Now removed entirely from the game.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Death message]]s'''
* Added death messages for freezing:
** "<player> froze to death".

=== General ===
'''[[Controls]]'''
* Fullscreen can now be toggled with {{key|F11}} keyboard shortcut.

'''[[Settings]]'''
* Broadcasting options are now completely removed from the game since Mixer streaming services are no longer available.

'''[[Particles]]'''
* Added a new particle type: {{cd|snowflake_particle}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "[[Caves & Cliffs]]"  experimental toggles.
===Items===
'''[[Powder Snow Bucket]]'''
* Using a [[bucket]] on [[powder snow]] creates a powder snow bucket.
* Powder snow buckets can be used to place powder snow.

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Powder Snow]]'''
* Now emits particles when an entity is moving inside of it, or landing on it.
* Freezing effect is now removed from any mobs or players that catch fire.
* Mobs that have sunk into powder snow now can navigate through it.
* Entities on fire now have their fires extinguished when stepping into powder snow.
* Redstone dust, torches, and item frames can no longer be placed on powder snow.
* Gravity blocks no longer break when landing on powder snow.
* While within powder snow blocks third person camera is no longer pushed to the inside of the character's head.
* Mobs spawned inside Powder snow no longer have a risk of spawning underground.
* Powder snow block forms are no longer present in Creative Inventory anymore ({{bug|MCPE-105407}}).
* Powder snow no longer stops projectiles in Bedrock ({{bug|MCPE-104940}}).
* Lightweight mobs now can climb and navigate through powder snow blocks.
* Rabbits, silverfish, and endermites don't fall through powder snow blocks.
* An entity walking through powder snow will make the correct step sound regardless of which block is being walked on.
* Wearing Leather Boots now allows entities to climb powder snow Blocks ({{bug|MCPE-105410}}).
* Powder snow now has unique interaction sounds.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Goat]]'''
* Now avoids walking into powder snow while path-finding.

== Fixes ==
'''Nether Ambient Sounds'''
* Mobile players now experience ambient sounds in The Nether ({{bug|MCPE-74756}}).

'''General'''
* Shulker Boxes no longer lose their inventory when undyed in cauldrons ({{bug|MCPE-108196}}).
* Added new logic for mobs dismounting rideables.
* This also introduces a more fine-grained entity height check allowing different dismount places for entities of different heights.
* The player will no longer dismount into liquids (lava or water) from rideables such as boats.
* Sign-in failures now have a more helpful error message and provide error codes.

'''Gameplay'''
* In all worlds created with the same seed, the same chest will now always generate the same content in the same order ({{bug|MCPE-72432}}).
* Double Chests placed at chunk borders don't become partially invisible and don't crash the title when they are opened ({{bug|MCPE-106030}}).
* Golden Apple and Enchanted Apple now have colored hotbar text when selecting them ({{bug|MCPE-64427}}).

'''Technical'''
* Changing {{cd|RideableComponent}} property {{cd|rotate_rider_by}} to function for custom mobs.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.53]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.53]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.53]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.53]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.53]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.53 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.53]]