{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.0.7
| edition = Editor
| type = 
| date = August 6, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.110.23|1.21.110.23]]
| prevparent = 1.0.0
| prev = 1.0.6
| next = 1.0.8
| nextparent = 1.1.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.0.7''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on August 6, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/256|title=Release 1.0.7 (1.21.110.23)|website=GitHub|date=August 6, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/38609129067789-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-110-23|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.110.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 6, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added in EditorStructure's missing display name field for Scripting.
* Added support for toast messages display.
** Added a new option in the Settings panel called 'Show Toast Notifications'.
** When this checkbox is checked, the Info and Warning messages will be shown as toast messages.
* Added a new value {{cd|ShowToastNotifications}} in the enumeration {{cd|GraphicsSettingsProperty}}.

== Changes ==
* Updated Locate tool to use a combo box for biome selection.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug so origin value set in the Structure Panel is now reflected in Paste Preview.
* Fixed a bug that caused origin and size values set in the Structure Panel not to propagate to the Editor Structure's metadata.
* Fixed a bug that caused horizontal sub pane to have broken layout for some property items.
* Fixed a bug that caused some paused entities to be deformed.
* Fixed a bug where the Locate tool failed to find distant biomes.
* Fixed a bug where the line tool failed to fill long lines or lines far from the player.
* Fixed a bug that caused hidden gizmo widget to appear on creation.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.0.7]]
[[uk:1.0.7 (Bedrock Editor)]]