{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.03}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.0.3.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.3.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.3.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.0.3<br>
|parent=1.14.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 23, 2019
|prevparent=1.13.3
|prev=beta 1.14.0.2
|next=beta 1.14.0.4
|nextparent=1.14.0.12
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.0.3''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]], released on October 23, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360035476291|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.0.3 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=October 23, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''General'''
* Fixed the redstone piston mechanic in the Traveling Trader Marketplace pack. 
* Players using vertical split screen can now select featured items in the character creator. 
* Equipping a new custom skin will now update the player model without needing to restart. 
* Players can now apply the Founder's Cape to owned skins. ({{bug|MCPE-53513}})
* The 'See Pack In Store' button in the character creator can now be highlighted and selected when using a controller.

'''Gameplay'''
* Tweaked horse behavior to match ''Java Edition'' when moving over honey blocks.
* Players standing on a honey block with Jump Boost II applied can now jump up one full block.

'''Items'''
* The "n" in "Bee nest" is now capitalized. ({{bug|MCPE-53678}})

'''Graphical'''
* Water now renders correctly when a kelp plant is placed next to a glass block.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.3]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.3]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.0.3]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.3]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 베타 1.14.0.3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.0.3]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.0.3 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.3]]