{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.10.21 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.10.21.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.18.1021.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.1021.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.10.21<br>
|parent=1.18.10
|date='''Xbox, Windows, Android''': December 1, 2021
|prevparent=1.18.2
|prev=beta 1.18.10.20
|next=beta 1.18.10.22
|nextparent=1.18.11
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.10.21''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.10]], released on December 1, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4415247692173|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.18.10.21 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=December 1, 2021}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|loot}}'''
* Re-added to the game.

=== General ===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]]'''
* Added new "Wild Update" toggle.

== Changes ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[Fossil]]s'''
* The fossils in the deepest part of the underground generate with Deepslate Diamond Ore instead of Coal Ore.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Wild Update" and "Enable GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===

==== Blocks ====
'''[[Sculk]], [[Sculk Catalyst]], [[Sculk Sensor]], [[Sculk Shrieker]], [[Sculk Vein]]'''
* Moved from "Vanilla Experiments" to "Wild Update" experimental toggle.

==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Effect]]s'''
* Moved [[Darkness]] effects from "Vanilla Experiments" to "Wild Update" experimental toggle.

==== Technical ====
'''GameTest Framework'''
* mojang-minecraft
** World
*** Added blockBreak and blockPlace events, which are called when a player breaks or places a block in the world
** BlockExplodeEvent
*** Renamed destroyedBlock to block
** Player
*** Added method startItemCooldown(itemCategory : string, durationTicks : int) - Starts or resets a cooldown on an item category (e.g., ender_pearl) for the given duration in ticks
*** Added method getItemCooldown(itemCategory : string) - Returns the remaining duration in ticks that this player has of the given item category. If no cooldown is present, returns 0.
** ItemCooldownComponent
*** Added ItemCooldownComponent (item.getComponent("minecraft:cooldown"))
*** Read-only property cooldownCategory : string - Represents the cooldown category of this item.
*** Read-only property cooldownTicks : int - Represents the cooldown time in ticks for this item if cooldown is enabled
*** method startCooldown(player : Player) - Starts or resets a cooldown for this item on the given player if cooldown is enabled for this item
** ItemType
*** Removed getName method and added read-only property .id
*mojang-gametest
** Test
*** Added gameMode: GameModeparameter to spawnSimulatedPlayer method
** SimulatedPlayer
*** Renamed destroyBlockto breakBlock
*** Renamed stopDestroyingBlockto stopBreakingBlock
*** Removed selectSlot method
*** Added property selectedSlot : int - Gets or sets the currently selected hotbar slot for the player

== Fixes ==
'''World Generation'''
* The bottoms of hoodoos in Eroded Badlands biomes no longer make flat ceilings in caves underneath ({{bug|MCPE-146984}}).
* Lily Pads no longer get placed in aquifers under Swamp biomes ({{bug|MCPE-125913}}).
* Fossils can now be generate below Y=0, with Deepslate Diamond Ore Blocks instead of Coal Ore Blocks ({{bug|MCPE-144065}}).
* Fossils will no longer generate floating in caves or water.
* Mineshafts now always generate above the Bedrock layer ({{bug|MCPE-147575}}).
* Biome decoration features in cave biomes now have similar frequency as Java Edition.

'''Gameplay'''
* Furnaces now consistently output the expected amount of items after completing a smelt ({{bug|MCPE-126004}}).
* Light Block light intensity can now be incremented periodically while holding right-click/interact ({{bug|MCPE-137647}}).
* Light Block light intensity can now be changed on touch-input devices ({{bug|MCPE-148622}}).
* The teleport command will no longer succeed when 'checkForBlocks' is true and the destination is obstructed.
* Fixed first person off-hand Shield blocking animation ({{bug|MCPE-125340}}).
* Fixed first person blocking animation while dual wielding Shields.

'''Mobs'''
* Axolotl walk animations are now affected by speed ({{bug|MCPE-131322}}).
* Wolves will now correctly react to being damaged.
* Mobs can once again jump over blocks to pick up items.
* Item data no longer gets corrupt when items are placed in mobs' hands ({{bug|MCPE-145034}}).

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed tab order on Settings menu when navigating with gamepad bumpers.
* Removed double space spelling issues on several screens, including the Feedback prompt ({{bug|MCPE-104037}}).
* Fixed an issue with Screen Reader on the “Save purchase to a Microsoft Account” screen.

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Raid boss bar says now displays "Raid - Victory" and Fireworks are launched from the ground after a raid is defeated ({{bug|MCPE-51267}}).

'''Android'''
* Added a warning prompt explaining potential loss of data when setting File Storage. Location to External on Android devices.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.21]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.18.10.21]]
[[ru:Beta 1.18.10.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.10.21]]