{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.7.4
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = October 9, 2024
| client = 1.21.50.20
| prevparent = 0.7.0
| prev = 0.7.3
| next = 0.7.5
| nextparent = 0.8.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.7.4''' is a minor alpha release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on October 9, 2024.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/201</ref><ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/30892949042189</ref>

== Changes ==
'''Brush tool'''
* Selection now has a freehand select that uses brushes to paint
* Updated general brush functionality:
** Brush shapes are visualized as grey wireframes, and show only affected blocks in yellow
** Cursor Control / Mouse Mode is now using a common control which is shared across extensions
** Brush Selection, Masking and Brush Properties is now using a custom control which is shared across extensions
** Brush Painting now visualizes only affected blocks
* Added support for brush shape offsets.

'''API'''
* Added {{cd|addToggleGroup}} function to {{cd|IPropertyPane}} API to create toggle groups with selectable icon buttons.
* Added an optional {{cd|infoTooltip}}: {{cd|TooltipInteractiveContent}} property to {{cd|IRootPropertyPane}} API, displayed as an icon in the drawer header. Interactive tooltips remain active on hover and support links and paragraphs.
* Added {{cd|serialize(obj)}} and {{cd|deserialize(string)}} functions. These act like {{cd|JSON.stringify/JSON.parse}} but will use custom {{cd|serializers/deserializers}} registered with {{cd|registerSerializationForType}}.
** {{cd|CompoundBlockVolume}} and {{cd|BlockVolume}} are able to be serialized and deserialized with these functions.
* Added {{cd|registerSerializationForType<T>(constructor, name, serializer, deserializer)}} which registers any type with custom serialization/deserialization for serialize and deserialize.
* Updated Block Masks to work when empty (always match).
* Added {{cd|cancel}} property to {{cd|endPainting()}}.
* Added mouse button event data to the widget state change event so that server scripts can track mouse button events (press, release, drag) and the state of modifier keys ({{keys|shift}}, {{keys|ctrl}}).
* Changed deleted {{cd|fillColor}} and {{cd|outlineColor}} in {{cd|CursorProperties}} so that causes the Cursor colors to return back to the colors of those keys in the currently-selected theme.

'''Others'''
* Added a new settings screen in View > View Settings to configure certain view related settings (like invisible block visibility and chunk boundaries)
* Added control buttons next to the hotbar to switch the active palette and manage other palettes.
* Updated Selection Volume and Cursor colors to default to the colors of those keys in the currently-selected theme. 
* Changed Client Widget X, Y, and Z arrows to always be the colors of those keys in the currently-selected theme. 

== Fixes ==
* Fixed issues with selection being cleared on tool focus change.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|alpha}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.7.4]]
[[uk:0.7.4 (Bedrock Editor)]]