{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.020.53}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.20.53.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.2053.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.2053.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.20.53<br>
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' July 16, 2020
|parent=1.16.20
|prevparent=1.16.10
|prev=beta 1.16.20.52
|next=beta 1.16.20.54
|nextparent=1.16.21
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.20.53''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.20]], released on July 16, 2020, which fixes bugs and changes the way recipes are highlighted and selected when using a controller.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360045908892|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.20.53 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=July 16, 2020}}</ref>

== Changes ==
===General===
'''[[Inventory]]'''
* Recipe selected items put in the crafting input grid can now be hovered over with controller to see their tooltip names.
* Hovering over recipes will show them in the crafting grid when no recipe is selected.
* Can now deselect the selected recipe when hovering above in the recipe book with the controller.
* Can now clear the crafting grid by clicking the right stick on the controller.

== Fixes ==
'''User Interface and Input'''
* Recipe Select button prompt shows when hovering over a non-craftable recipe book item using controller ({{bug|MCPE-79725}}).  
* Recipe selected items put in crafting input grid can now be hovered over with controller to see their tooltip names.
* On controller, hovering over recipes will show them in the crafting grid when no recipe is selected.
* On controller, you can deselect a selected recipe when hovering above that selection in the recipe book. You can also clear the crafting grid by clicking the right stick. 

'''Performance and Stability'''
* Loom blocks will no longer cause an out of memory crash when using high resolution resource packs ({{bug|MCPE-69848}}) 

'''General'''
* Legacy chunk upgrades will no longer cause the chunk to become 100% air ({{bug|MCPE-58514}}).
* Players can once again host 8 max player worlds on PlayStation 4 ({{bug|MCPE-85009}}).
* {{cmd|clear}} now correctly removes all blocks with the same block name when no data argument is passed in.
* Piglins and Brutes can now spawn with enchanted weapons ({{bug|MCPE-83536}}).
* Fixed an issue where the Hot Tourist Destination trophy would not unlock when visiting the last required Nether biome on PlayStation 4. ({{bug|MCPE-85496}}) 
* Fixed an issue that prevented players from being able to place beehives or bee nests from their inventory after an update. ({{bug|MCPE-62067}})
* Fixed broken trading screen slots on iOS.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.20.53]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.20.53]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.20.53]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.20.53]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.20.53]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.20.53 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.20.53]]