{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.5026.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.50.26<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.21.50.26 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.50.26.png
| build = 28879732
| editorver = 0.7.7
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952105066 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962105066 (x86, 34)<br />
972105066 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982105066 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = October 30, 2024
| server = 1.21.50.26
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.26.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.26.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.50
| prevparent = 1.21.44
| prev = Preview 1.21.50.25
| next = Preview 1.21.50.28
| nextparent = 1.21.51
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.50.26''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.50.26''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the fifth beta and fourth ''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50]], released on October 30, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31476211695501-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-50-26|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.50.26|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 30, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Creaking Heart]]'''
*Reduced the distance by which the creaking heart can spread resin clumps by one block.
*Resin clumps can now only spread onto pale oak log, stripped pale oak log, pale oak wood, and stripped pale oak wood.

'''[[Eyeblossom]]s'''
*Eyeblossoms now play sounds when opening and closing.
*Open eyeblossoms now emit ambient sounds when placed on a pale moss block.
*Eyeblossoms placed in world and in [[flower pots]] now emit a particle when opening/closing.
*Open and closed eyeblossoms can now be used on mooshrooms to obtain their respective suspicious stews when milking.

'''[[Glow Lichen]]'''
*Glow lichen now play their step sound when on top of a block an actor is walking on.

'''[[Jigsaw]]'''
*Dimension padding is now taken into account when placing the start piece of a jigsaw structure.

'''[[Pale Moss]], [[Pale Moss Carpet]], and [[Pale Hanging Moss]]'''
*They now burn more quickly but take longer to catch on fire.
*They can now be ignited by lava.

'''[[Pale Oak Leaves]]'''
*They now emit falling leaf particles.

'''[[Resin Bricks]]'''
*Recipes for resin brick slabs, stairs, and walls now give the same amount of blocks as the nether brick ones.

'''[[Resin Clump]]'''
*Mobs now correctly pathfind over resin clumps.
*Resin clumps now play their step sound when on top of a block an actor is walking on.

'''[[Slime Block]]'''
*Sneaking while landing on a slime block no longer causes fall damage.

'''[[Trial Spawner]]'''
*Some trial spawners did not have an extra breeze out at once when ominous.

'''[[Vine]], [[Cave Vines]], [[Twisting Vines]], and [[Weeping Vines]]'''
*They now play their correct sounds instead of the [[nether wart]] sound.

=== General ===
'''UI'''
*Enables selecting disabled buttons on the "join friends" menu while crossplay is turned off.
*Dualsense gamepads now have correct tooltip icons on mobile devices.
*Added an option to enable a "[[pick block]]" button for touch controls in Creative mode.

'''[[Title screen]]'''
*The [[panorama]] was changed to showcase [[pale gardens]].

=== Sounds ===
'''[[Pale Garden]]'''
* Music volume now gradually lowers to zero when entering a Pale Garden and gradually resumes when leaving it.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Creaking]]'''
* The volume and pitch of the creaking's step sounds have been adjusted.
* The attenuation drop-off rate for some of the creaking's sounds is now linear, allowing them to be heard from greater distances.
* Reduced the speed of non-hostile creakings.
* Tamed wolves' attacks no longer prevent creakings from attacking the player.
* Creakings can no longer move when only their feet are observed, and their feet are in soul sand or mud.
* Creakings can now approach a player which is looking downward, stopping only once they enter the player's field of view.
* The creaking now sways when hit by a projectile.
* The creaking's attack animation has been smoothed out for a more natural motion.

'''[[Wandering Trader]]'''
* Can now sell [[pale oak sapling]]s, [[open eyeblossom]]s, [[pale moss block]]s, and [[pale hanging moss]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Tall Grass]]'''
*Tall grass generates properly with its top part in the pale garden biome.
*Tall grass generates properly with its top part in the lush caves biome.

'''[[Tree]]s'''
* All trees can now grow through leaves, with the exception of cherry trees, which cannot grow through their own leaves.
* All trees can grow on dirt-like blocks

=== Technical ===
'''API'''
*Vanilla trial spawner NBT {{cd|normalConfig}} and {{cd|ominousConfig}} tags values now support references to common configurations as an alternative to inline configuration.

'''[[Audio]]'''
*Per-biome ambient sounds are now defined in {{cd|client_biome}} JSON components
**This uses the new {{cd|minecraft:ambient_sounds}} component
**Named sounds must be defined in {{cd|individual_named_sounds}} in {{cd|sounds.json}} files.

'''[[Biome]]s'''
*Client biome JSON files now support a {{cd|minecraft:biome_music}} component with a {{cd|volume_multiplier}} field which will gradually affect music volume when the audio listener is inside the corresponding biome.
**The gradual volume change will take roughly ten seconds and will linearly increase but exponentially decrease.

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Added the {{cd|minecraft:liquid_detection}} component which controls the basic liquid detection properties of a block, such as liquidlogging, liquid blocking, and being broken or popped by liquid spread. The only liquid currently supported by the component is water.
*Using the {{cd|minecraft:block_placer}} item component to render the referenced block as the item icon no longer requires the "Upcoming Creator Features" toggle.

'''Entity Components'''
*The {{cd|minecraft:looked_at}} component's {{cd|look_at_locations}} field now accepts a list of objects as a parameter, each containing two fields
**{{cd|location}}, the location of the entity that must be visible
***Valid values: {{cd|head}}, {{cd|body}}, {{cd|feet}}
**{{cd|vertical_offset}}, an optional vertical offset applied to the entity's location

'''[[Molang]]'''
*Moved {{cd|query.client_memory_tier}} to {{cd|stable}}.
**Removed {{cd|Undetermined}}. It returns a number representing the client RAM memory tier, 0 = {{cd|SuperLow}}, 1 = {{cd|Low}}, 2 = {{cd|Mid}}, 3 = {{cd|High}}, or 4 = {{cd|SuperHigh}}. Available on the Client (Resource Packs) only.
*Moved {{cd|query.server_memory_tier}} to {{cd|stable}}.
**Removed {{cd|Undetermined}}. It returns a number representing the server RAM memory tier, 0 = {{cd|SuperLow}}, 1 = {{cd|Low}}, 2 = {{cd|Mid}}, 3 = {{cd|High}}, or 4 = {{cd|SuperHigh}}. Available on the server side (Behavior Packs) only.
*Moved {{cd|query.client_max_render_distance}} to {{cd|stable}}.

'''Network Protocol'''
*New level sound events added: {{cd|Open}}, {{cd|OpenLong}}, {{cd|Close}}, and {{cd|CloseLong}}
*New Particle Type added: {{cd|EyeblossomOpen}}
*New Particle Type added: {{cd|EyeblossomClose}}
*New particle type added: {{cd|PaleOakLeaves}}

'''Scripting API'''
*Moved {{cd|ClientSystemInfo}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.16.0}}.
*Moved {{cd|MemoryTier}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.16.0}}.
*Moved {{cd|PlatformType}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.16.0}}.
*Moved {{cd|SystemInfo}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.16.0}}.
*Enum {{cd|MemoryTier}}.
**Removed {{cd|Undetermined}} entry.

'''Stability and Performance'''
*Some stats for packs discovered on launch are stored locally to enable faster future launches on some platforms.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Upcoming Creator Features", "Data-Driven Jigsaw Structures", and "Aim Assist" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|place}}'''
*Added {{cmd|place|link=none}}.

==== Technical ====
'''Blocks'''
*Added {{cd|minecraft:item_visual}} block component. This component takes nested {{cd|minecraft:geometry}} and {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} components to configure the item representation of a block
**{{cd|geometry}} and {{cd|material_instances}} fields are required. They utilize the same fields/requirements as {{cd|minecraft:geometry}} and {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} respectively
**Block must include {{cd|minecraft:geometry}} and {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} components alongside the {{cd|minecraft:item_visual}} component
**Requires the "Upcoming Creator Features" toggle
*Cobwebs now obey {{cd|blockshape}} and {{cd|textures}} properties set in {{cd|blocks.json}}
**Requires the "Upcoming Creator Features" toggle

'''API'''
*Added access to the composting chance for existing Vanilla items via the {{cd|ItemStack}} API
*Added access to the composting chance for items with {{cd|CompostableItemComponent}} via the Item Component API

'''Camera'''
*Added the rotation to the camera command for the {{cd|fixed_boom}} camera

'''Component'''
*Added the {{cd|minecraft:compostable}} item component to Upcoming Creator Features experimental toggle

'''Scripting'''
*Added support for input glyph replacement for server forms ({{cd|ActionFormData}}, {{cd|MessageFormData}}, and {{cd|ModalFormData}}).

'''Structures'''
*Expose "Data-Driven [[Jigsaw Structure]]s" experiment toggle to Creators
**Creators will be able to modify structure generation rules around placement (location and frequency), layout (how structure pieces are placed relative to one another), and customization (how blocks within a structure piece are modified or replaced).
**There are 4 new JSON files comprising Jigsaw Structure data:
***Jigsaw Structures: These are structures that can be constructed throughout the world with various structure pieces. The connection block is a jigsaw block.
***Processors: A processor can add custom behaviors to the structure that affects how it looks.
***Structure Sets: Structure sets are JSON that indicate where and how a structure is placed throughout the world.
***Template Pools: A template pool contains the structure pieces that make up a structure.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.50.26 Preview
|;old
|71859|Blackstone cannot be used to repair stone tools and weapons in an anvil
|90625|Sky color transitions abruptly between biomes
|112420|Blocks sometimes disappear when placed
|171001|{{cd|rawtext %%%%1}} cannot be escaped correctly
|178520|Crash with crafting recipe mod
|180725|Cherry Leaves count as custom blocks
|184404|Player can interact with the world while customizing controls
|185354|Jumping when falling onto a slime block no longer cancels the bounce effect
|;previous
|186963|Wrong effect seconds is displayed when using {{cmd|/effect}}
|187301|Pale oak leaves stop any sapling but pale oak saplings from growing up
|187302|Some tree leaves stop pale oak saplings from growing up
|187326|Pale garden ambient sounds are too quiet and rare
|187397|Pale hanging moss model does not match cave vines model
|187456|Wandering traders don't sell pale oak saplings
|187514|Mangrove swamps spawn many incorrect animals
|otherissuescount=5}}
'''Other'''
*Resin clump and resin brick items no longer float in the player's hand in 3rd person view.
*Fixed a bug where loading screens while loading a realm were not showing Realms UI elements.
*Improved game loading stability.
*Fixed spacing on Realms Stories and Timeline pages.
*Fixed a bug where the death screen and new bed screen would sometimes have incorrect textures applied when resource packs were used.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.50.26]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.50.26]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.50.26 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.50.26]]