{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.10.26 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.10.26.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.18.1026.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.1026.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.10.26<br>
|parent=1.18.10
|date='''Xbox, Windows, Android''': January 5, 2022
|prevparent=1.18.2
|prev=beta 1.18.10.24
|next=beta 1.18.10.27
|nextparent=1.18.11
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.10.26''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.10]], released on January 5, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4418784338829|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.18.10.26 (Xbox / Windows / Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=January 5, 2022}}</ref> which adds new {{cmd|damage}} command, more parity features from ''Java Edition'', some of [[The Wild Update]] features (especially new blocks, [[froglight]]s) behind the [[experimental gameplay]] and fixes bugs. This is the first beta released in 2022.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|damage}}'''
* Used for players deal damage to entities.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Glow Lichen]]'''
* Now emits with light level 7, instead of 10. Parity with {{el|je}}.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Iron Golem]]s'''
* Now starts cracking upon losing [[health]].
** A [[sound]] plays on every cracking stage.
*** There are 4 stages, from uncracked to fully cracked, before the golem dies.
* Can be healed {{ctrl|using}} [[iron ingot]]s.
** A [[sound]] plays each time the golem is repaired.
* One iron ingot restores {{hp|25}}.
** It takes 4 iron ingots to repair an iron golem from 1 HP to full health.
* Now only attack players with a very bad standing in a village after attacking a villager. Parity with {{el|je}}.

'''[[Villager]]s and [[Wandering Trader]]s'''
* Removed the emerald icon above their head when [[trading]]. Parity with {{el|je}}.

=== Items ===
'''[[Iron Ingot]]s'''
* Can be used to repair Iron Golems. Parity with ''[[Java Edition]]''.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Grove]]'''
* Now has more variety of trees.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Trading]]'''
* Updated trade tables for [[Butcher]]s, [[Cartographer]]s, [[Librarian]]s, and [[Wandering Trader]]s. Parity with {{el|je}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Wild Update" and "Enable GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Froglight]]'''
* Added froglights, with 3 variants: Ochre, Pearlescent and Verdant.
* Emit a light level of 15.
* Dropped when [[frog]]s eat small [[magma cube]]s.
** When eaten by Swamp frogs, drop Ochre Froglight.
** When eaten by Tundra frogs, drop Verdant Froglight.
** When eaten by Tropical frogs, drop Pearlescent Froglight.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Frog]]s'''
* Added their sounds.

'''[[Tadpole]]s'''

*Added their sounds.
*Now panic near [[Axolotl]]s.

===Technical===

'''GameTest Framework'''

*Entity
**Added function <code>teleport(location: Location, dimension: Dimension, xRotation (optional): float, yRotation (optional): float)</code>.
** Added function <code>teleportFacing(location: Location, dimension: Dimension, facingLocation: Location)</code>.
*Added <code>registerAsyncmethod</code> to register and properly track the state of GameTests using async functions.

'''Blocks'''

*Added support for blocks having the same name as long as they belong to different namespaces.

==Fixes==

'''Experimental'''

*Frogs and Tadpoles now have sounds. ({{bug|MCPE-150742}})
* Frog panic speed is now appropriate.
*Glow Lichen can no longer be placed on top of Frog Egg. ({{bug|MCPE-150738}})

'''Stability and Performance'''

*Fixed an issue that could cause the entities in a chunk to not save when exiting a world. ({{bug|MCPE-144208}})
*The game now loads certain seeds and worlds around Mesa biomes without crashing. ({{bug|MCPE-149659}})

'''Vanilla Parity'''

*Iron Golems now show different degrees of cracking depending on their health. Iron Ingots can be used on damaged Iron Golems to repair them. ({{bug|MCPE-74081}})
*Glow Lichen now has similar brightness as on {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-126883}})
*Foxes now aim downwards when they pounce. ({{bug|MCPE-143664}})
*Removed the emerald icon above a Villager's head when trading.
*Updated trade tables for Butchers, Cartographers, Librarians, and Wandering Traders.
*Iron Golems now only attack players with a very bad standing in a village after attacking a villager.

'''Accessibility'''

*Text-to-speech (TTS) now correctly reads the names of experimental toggles.

'''Commands'''

*Placing Cocoa Beans with {{cmd|setblock}} or {{cmd|fill}} commands no longer results in an error.

'''Feature placement'''

*Large Dripstone feature does not generate floating on top of lava anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-141131}})
*Pointed Dripstone clusters no longer have a chance of spawning only stalagmites of height one. ({{bug|MCPE-148588}})

'''Furnaces'''

*Blast Furnaces and Smokers once again give XP. ({{bug|MCPE-150427}})

'''Gameplay'''

*Pointed Dripstone now sometimes generate on large stalactites and stalagmites. ({{bug|MCPE-128128}})
*Lava pools now only generate in positive Y coordinates. ({{bug|MCPE-146459}})
**Lava pools that generate close to Y=0 will have Deepslate and Stone blocks casing.
* Coral now generates in the deeper depths of Warm Oceans. ({{bug|MCPE-147399}})
* The Grove biome now has more variety of trees. ({{bug|MCPE-148361}})
* Fixed Light Block's brightness not being adjustable when playing in VR.
* Fixed Light Block not being continuously placed while holding right-click and moving. ({{bug|MCPE-135669}})
*Light Blocks can now be waterlogged. ({{bug|MCPE-148391}})
*Fixed issue where breaking blocks, opening chests, and entering portals would be delayed/not work when there are lots of mobs nearby. ({{bug|MCPE-149214}})
*Grass and double flowers now have proper animations when breaking. ({{bug|MCPE-150786}})
*Flower blocks are now properly destroyed by explosions when inside snow layers. ({{bug|MCPE-146492}})
*Skeleton Horsemen now pathfind correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-147521}})

'''World Generation'''

*Iceberg features no longer replace Snow Blocks of Igloo structures. ({{bug|MCPE-147690}})
*Water in open air mountain caves no longer generates unevenly. ({{bug|MCPE-149417}})
*Aquifers no longer generate with missing water blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-146452}})

===Technical ===

'''General'''

*Reapplied changes to use "allowlist" instead of "whitelist". ({{bug|BDS-14119}})

'''JumpToBlockGoal'''

*<code>JumpToBlockGoal</code> now correctly searches the same distance upwards and downwards when looking for <code>jumpblockcandidates</code>, allowing a mobs that use the goal to jump equally high as low.

'''Animations'''

*Fixed animation controller recursion checks from falsely disallowing normal repeat usage of a controller.

'''User Interface'''

*Fixed issue where up and down arrow buttons in the Resource Pack Settings screen became bigger when highlighted. ({{bug|MCPE-147708}})</onlyinclude>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.26]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.26]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.26]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.18.10.26]]
[[ru:Beta 1.18.10.26 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.10.26]]