{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.2.20.2.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android''' – April 20, 2018
|parent=1.4.0
|prevparent=1.2.13.60
|prev=beta 1.2.20.1
|nextparent=1.4.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.2.20.2''' is the fourth and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.4.0]], released on April 20, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004165091-Minecraft-Beta-1-2-20-2-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.2.20.2 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=April 20, 2018}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Dolphin]]s'''
* Added sounds.

=== General ===
'''User interface'''
* Added Pocket UI screens for the [[compound creator]], [[element constructor]], [[lab table]], and [[material reducer]].

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Heart of the Sea]] and [[Nautilus shell]]s'''
* Changed textures to match {{el|je}}.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Dolphin]]s'''
* Updated model.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that occurred when creating a world when {{el|ee}} toggle was enabled.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when deleting a world or [[resource pack]] through the Storage screen.
* Attempting to import {{el|ee}} world files no longer resets worlds.
* Reduced the delay when placing or destroying blocks.
* Curse of Binding and Vanishing books can no longer be acquired by trading with a librarian [[villager]].
* All Chemistry [[item]]s now appear in [[Creative inventory]] if Education Edition toggle is enabled.
* Reduced the amount of [[magma block]]s that generate in underwater ravines.
* Bucket of fish items now appear in the Creative Inventory.
* Dolphins can successfully get back to water now.
* Fixed several of the top crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed some toggles and buttons staying highlighted in [[Settings]] when they shouldn't.
* Fixed the crafting recipes of prismarine bricks and dark prismarine being switched.
* [[Guardian]]s will now attack [[cod]].
* [[Guardian]]s can no longer jump out of the water and suspend themselves in the air while firing their beam.
* Water can once again be removed with a bucket if there is a block above it.
* The paper doll is no longer running on the main menu.
* It is once again possible to fill an empty bucket using touch controls.
* Water around [[chest]]s in [[ocean ruins]] no longer appears if the Ruin generates above water.
* Charging a [[bow]] or [[trident]] and switching items no longer causes blocks to not drop when broken.
* Ravines once again generate correctly.
* Crouching and flying up no longer causes the player to jump in Creative mode.
* Fixed an instance of [[flat]] worlds not generating any new chunks.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.20.2]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.20.2]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.2.20.2]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.20.2]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.4 build 8]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.2.20.2]]
[[ru:Beta 1.2.20.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.2.20.2]]