{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.30.32 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.30.32.png
|image3=Bedrock 1.18.30.33.png
|type=Preview
|internal=;Beta
'''Windows''': 1.18.3032.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.3032.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.30.32<br>
'''Preview'''
'''Windows''': 1.18.3033.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.3033.70<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': 1.18.30.33<br>
|parent=1.18.30
|date='''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''': March 31, 2022
|prevparent=1.18.12
|prev=Preview 1.18.30.31
|next=
|nextparent=1.18.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.30.32''' (Windows, Android, Xbox) or '''Preview 1.18.30.33''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the eleventh and final beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.30]], released on March 31, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/5180025690893|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.18.30.32/33|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 31, 2022}}</ref> which adds [[ancient city|ancient cities]], [[reinforced deepslate]] and the [[warden]] behind [[experimental gameplay]], and fixes bugs.

== Experimental ==
These additions are accessible by enabling the "Wild Update" experimental toggle.

=== Additions ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Reinforced Deepslate]]'''
* A new block only found in [[Ancient City|ancient cities]].
* It is unobtainable in survival mode.
* Has some unknown "interesting" purpose.
* Currently can only be broken by mining, although after a very long time, and is immune to explosions, withers, and ender dragons.
* Unlike other blast resistant blocks, it can be moved by pistons.<ref group="note">[https://twitter.com/kingbdogz/status/1494693171288236035 This was confirmed to be unintentional]</ref>

==== Items ====
'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Added Warden spawn egg.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Warden]]'''
* The first fully blind mob (bats have basic eyesight, both in-game and in the real world).
** Because of this, it stumbles as it walks.
** Has a sense of smell. It can detect and pathfind toward the general location of a player or mob through a "smelling" action.
*** Prioritizes smelling the player or mob that it is most suspicious of, rather than the one closest to it.
** Has a sense of vibration. When sensing movement, it pathfinds toward the source of the movement.
*** It follows and attacks players, mobs, and other entities that make vibrations.<ref group="note">The Warden does not attack non-mob entities but it does follow the vibrations that they make.</ref>
**** It does not attack other wardens.
*** When it detects a vibration, the growths on its head rattle and light up, similar to the [[sculk sensor]].
**** Seems to follow the same rules as the [[sculk sensor]] when detecting vibrations.
**** If any projectile (e.g. [[egg]], [[snowball]], [[arrow]]) lands near it, the warden inspects the location where the projectile landed, due to the projectile creating significant vibrations. This feature can be used in order to cause a distraction.
*** Does not detect players that are sneaking.
** Can detect players or mobs that have the [[Invisibility]] effect.
* Becomes more suspicious of a player or mob as it detects its location more through vibrations and/or smelling. When it suspects the target enough, it identifies its exact location, which aggravates it, causing it to pathfind toward the target to attack regardless of outside distractions.
* Spawns in the deep dark biome, specifically when a player activates sculk shriekers three times.
** It is the only mob that spawns in the deep dark biome.
* "Emerges" from the ground when spawned by [[sculk shrieker]]s.
** Digs back into the ground when it doesn't sense any vibration after 60 seconds.
*** Like how [[name tags]] prevent despawning, name tags can also prevent wardens from being able to burrow back to the ground.
*** Wardens will not dig back when they're in water.
* A mob designed to be extremely difficult, intended to be avoided and fled from.
** Has {{hp|500}} health points and does {{hp|30}} damage on Normal difficulty, bringing players wearing full [[netherite]] [[armor]] from full health to {{hp|7}} health points. Wardens also disable shields when they hit the players with their fists, and are at least as fast as a walking player.
* Warden's chest has a glowing core that appears to brighten and dim in tandem with the Darkness effect.
** The core creates a low throbbing or "heartbeat" sound as it pulses. The sound and animation speed up rapidly as the warden gets more suspicious of or closer to attacking a player or mob.
* Is about 3.5 blocks tall, making it one of the tallest mobs in the game, exceeding the [[iron golem]] and [[enderman]] in height and width (the same).
** Wardens have long melee reach, being able to hit the player when on top of a four-block pillar, thus making it capable of countering certain cheese tactics, such as pillaring.
* Is immune to [[lava]] and can float up lava columns very fast.

==== World generation ====
'''[[Ancient City]]'''
* New structure that generates within the deep dark biome.
* Includes all of the deep dark features within it.
* Made of deepslate and its variants, basalt blocks and its variants, planks, and wool.
* Contains soul sand, soul fire and soul lanterns.
* Contains candles and skeleton skulls.
* Contains chests with unique loot.
** The loot is intended to be items that cannot be found anywhere else in the world, and that provide unique abilities and mechanics to players that weren't possible before and are not attainable by other methods.
* Contains mysterious frames made of reinforced deepslate.
* Has different levels and open spaces.
* Extremely large in terms of size, tends to spawn between y=0 and y=-64.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur when getting hit by a falling block while wearing a helmet ({{bug|MCPE-153321}}).
* Fixed entities disappearing when importing worlds converted from legacy Console Edition
* Mobs with knockback resistance (e.g. ravager or zoglin) now receive less knockback when hit by iron golem.
* Fixed end city feature generation in the end.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed issue where info and buttons did not appear for downloaded skin packs ({{bug|MCPE-152216}}).
* Fixed being unable to exit the emote wheel screen when using touch controls.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.18.30 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.30.32]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.30.32]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.18.30.33]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.18.30.33]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock Preview 1.18.30.33]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.30.32]]