{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.8.4
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = January 8, 2025
| client = 1.21.60.25
| prevparent = 0.8.0
| prev = 0.8.3
| next = 0.8.5
| nextparent = 0.9.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.8.4''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on January 8, 2025, which adds new features and fixes bugs and crashes from [[Bedrock Editor 0.8.3|0.8.3]].<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/216</ref><ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/33310018457741</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added a night vision setting to the view settings pane. This enables night vision within the editor for the user and is enabled by default.
* Added the ability to change the vertical fly speed.
* Added a new {{cd|BlockTable}} UI element to {{cd|Property Pane}} API.
* Added an optional {{cd|CursorPosition}} property to the {{cd|CursorPropertiesChangeAfterEvent}}. Using this new property, developers can track when the block or block face under the mouse cursor changes.
* Added right click on action bar items to toggle selector menus.

== Changes ==
* Updated farm generator to use transactions allowing for undo and redo functionality.
* Updated the summon tool nudge operation to remain active as long as the key binding is held down.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed an assert/crash that occurs when changing dimensions.
* Fixed an assert/crash when saving world and re-entering a world multiple times.
* Fixed a bug that occasionally made panel scrollbars unresponsive.
* Fixed a bug that caused action bar items to change positions when scrollbar is visible.
* Fixed a bug where game menus are shown in the tool mode viewport.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.8.4]]
[[ru:0.8.4 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.8.4 (Bedrock Editor)]]