{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.1020.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.10.20
| image = Bedrock 1.21.10.20 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.10.20.png
| build = 24786292
| editorver = 0.6.4
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952101020 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962101020 (x86, 34)<br />
972101020 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982101020 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = May 22, 2024
| server = 1.21.10.20
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.10.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.10.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.20
| prevparent = 1.21.3
| prev = 
| next = Preview 1.21.10.21
| nextparent = 1.21.21
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.10.20''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.21.10.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20]]{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.21.10 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20|1.21.20]].<ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/27935763028237-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-20-21</ref>}}, released on May 22, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/26899699762061|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.10.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 22, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Game Tips]]'''
*Added a game tip that tells the player how to swim when using a touch device.{{Info needed|What exactly does the tip say?}}
**This game tip only shows up when you are in water.
*Added a game tip that tells the player how to move when using a touch device with the D-pad control scheme.
*The game tip for breaking blocks is now labeled as the most relevant game tip when the player is freezing in [[powder snow]]. Therefore, the tip for breaking blocks will show up before other tips.
*When there are hostile mobs nearby, the player can still get game tips that will help the player run away (e.g. movement, jumping and camera movement) but other tips won't appear.{{Info needed|Which tips are displayed though? What what is the distance the mobs need to be within for this filter to apply?}}

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Vault]]s'''
*Loot ejected from Vaults in Trial Chambers are now dependent on level, position and player seed.

'''[[Top Snow]]'''
* Top Snow block now falls when placed using the {{cmd|/setblock}} command.

'''[[Double Slab]]s'''
* The different stone slab type [[block states]] for the <code>double_stone_block_slab</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="8" | {{BlockSprite|double-smooth-stone-slab}} <code>double_stone_block_slab</code>
| {{BlockSprite|double-smooth-stone-slab}} <code>smooth_stone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|sandstone}} <code>sandstone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|oak-planks}} <code>petrified_oak_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cobblestone}} <code>cobblestone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|bricks}} <code>brick_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stone-bricks}} <code>stone_brick_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|block-of-quartz}} <code>quartz_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|nether-bricks}} <code>nether_brick_double_slab</code>
|}

'''[[Slab]]s'''
* The different stone slab type [[block states]] for the <code>stone_block_slab2</code> and <code>stone_block_slab3</code> IDs have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="8" | {{BlockSprite|red-sandstone-slab}} <code>stone_block_slab2</code>
| {{BlockSprite|red-sandstone-slab}} <code>red_sandstone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|purpur-slab}} <code>purpur_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|prismarine-slab}} <code>prismarine_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dark-prismarine-slab}} <code>dark_prismarine_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|prismarine-brick-slab}} <code>prismarine_brick_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|mossy-cobblestone-slab}} <code>mossy_cobblestone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-sandstone-slab}} <code>smooth_sandstone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|red-nether-brick-slab}} <code>red_nether_brick_slab</code>
|-
| rowspan="8" | {{BlockSprite|end-stone-brick-slab}} <code>stone_block_slab3</code>
| {{BlockSprite|end-stone-brick-slab}} <code>end_stone_brick_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-red-sandstone-slab}} <code>smooth_red_sandstone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-andesite-slab}} <code>polished_andesite_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|andesite-slab}} <code>andesite_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|diorite-slab}} <code>diorite_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-diorite-slab}} <code>polished_diorite_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|granite-slab}} <code>granite_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-granite-slab}} <code>polished_granite_slab</code>
|}

'''[[Infested Block]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>monster_egg</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="6" | {{BlockSprite|infested-stone}} <code>monster_egg</code>
| {{BlockSprite|infested-stone}} <code>infested_stone</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|infested-cobblestone}} <code>infested_cobblestone</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|infested-stone-bricks}} <code>infested_stone_bricks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|infested-mossy-stone-bricks}} <code>infested_mossy_stone_bricks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|infested-cracked-stone-bricks}} <code>infested_cracked_stone_bricks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|infested-chiseled-stone-bricks}} <code>infested_chiseled_stone_bricks</code>
|}

'''[[Stone Bricks]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>stonebrick</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="4" | {{BlockSprite|stone-bricks}} <code>stonebrick</code>
| {{BlockSprite|stone-bricks}} <code>stone_bricks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|mossy-stone-bricks}} <code>mossy_stone_bricks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cracked-stone-bricks}} <code>cracked_stone_bricks</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|chiseled-stone-bricks}} <code>chiseled_stone_bricks</code>
|}

'''[[Infested Cobblestone]]'''
* It now has a hardness of 1.

'''[[Smooth Stone Bricks]]'''
* Smooth stone bricks block can no longer be obtained through commands and existing "Smooth Stone Bricks" will be converted to "Stone Bricks".

'''[[Prismarine Slab]], [[Dark Prismarine Slab]], [[Prismarine Bricks Slab]], [[Andesite Slab]], [[Polished Andesite Slab]], [[Diorite Slab]], [[Polished Diorite Slab]], [[Granite Slab]], and [[Polished Granite Slab]] '''
* They now have a hardness of 1.5.

'''[[End Stone Brick Slab]] '''
* It now has a hardness of 3.

=== General ===
'''[[Realm]]s'''
*All items on the Realms purchase screens are now focusable and can be navigated through using a gamepad input.
*Removed an extra "the" in Realms section of Minecraft Encyclopedia.

'''UI'''
*Shift-clicking inventory items no longer causes the item stack count to briefly appear above the stack.
*Interacting with a block outside of a players reach no longer causes the block interface to briefly appear.
*Added new visual elements to [[Hardcore]] mode in Create New World and new Edit World, and a sound effect when toggling Hardcore mode on or off. (''Preview'' only)

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Parrot]]s'''
* Parrot now correctly imitates the [[Bogged]] when nearby.

'''[[Witch]]es'''
*Witches now always drop 4-8 Redstone Dust on death.
**This is to improve the viability of farms that utilize Witch Huts to obtain [[Redstone Dust]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Trial Chambers]]'''
* Trial Chambers now generate far less frequently in the [[Deep Dark]] biome.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Add-On]]s and Script Engine'''
*Added a content error when {{cd|snow_accumulation}} array in a biome JSON has the minimum value set higher than the maximum value.

'''[[API]]'''
*{{cd|MinecraftItemTypes}} no longer contains old item names.
*Potions 
**Added class {{cd|Potions}} which contains helpers for retrieving handles to potion associated types.
**Added class {{cd|PotionEffectType}} which is a potion effect type handle associated with {{cd|MinecraftPotionEffectTypes}}.
**Added class {{cd|PotionModifierType}} which is a potion modifier type handle associated with {{cd|MinecraftPotionModifierTypes}}.
**Added class {{cd|PotionLiquidType}} which is a potion type handle associated with {{cd|MinecraftPotionLiquidTypes}}.
**Added class {{cd|ItemPotionComponent}} which can be obtained from a valid potion {{cd|ItemStack}}.
**Added interface {{cd|PotionOptions}} for use in {{cd|createPotion}}.
**Added function {{cd|createPotion}} for creating valid potion items.
*{{cd|Vanilla-Data}}
**Added enum {{cd|MinecraftPotionLiquidTypes}} containing potion liquid IDs.
**Added enum {{cd|MinecraftPotionEffectTypes}} containing potion effect IDs.
**Added enum {{cd|MinecraftPotionModifierTypes}} containing potion modifier IDs.
*{{cd|BlockExplodeAfterEvent}}
**Released {{cd|BlockExplodeAfterEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Released {{cd|BlockExplodeAfterEventSignal}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Released {{cd|blockExplode}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*Released {{cd|ItemTypes}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*Released {{cd|InputPermissionCategory}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*Released {{cd|PlayerInputPermissions}} and {{cd|inputPermissions}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*Released {{cd|PlayerInputPermissionCategoryChangeAfterEvent}} and {{cd|afterEvents.playerInputPermissionCategoryChanged}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*Added bound check for {{cd|setCurrentValue}}. The provided value will be clamped to the range of this attribute.
*{{cd|GameRules}}
**Released {{cd|ShowDaysPlayed}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Released {{cd|showDaysPlayed}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*{{cd|EnchantmentTypes}}
**Released {{cd|getAll(): EnchantmentType[]}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*{{cd|EntityRaycastOptions}}
**Released {{cd|ignoreBlockCollision}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Released {{cd|includeLiquidBlocks}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Released {{cd|includePassableBlocks}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Released {{cd|hitBlockPermutation}} member of {{cd|EntityHitBlockAfterEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
*Released {{cd|beta}} version of {{cd|addEffect}} method on {{cd|Entity}} to 3.0, which adds a return type for the newly created effect. (or undefined if no effect was added) 

'''[[Entities]]'''
*Armor equipped to the second slot of {{cd|minecraft:equippable}} is now applied to {{cd|slot.armor.body}} instead of {{cd|slot.armor.torso}}.
**To retrieve information about it, {{cd|query.armor_texture_slot}}, {{cd|query.armor_color_slot}} and {{cd|query.armor_damage_slot}} should now be used with a value of 4.
**This change only affects entities with a format version equal to or greater than {{cd|21.10}}.

'''General'''
*Updated documentation for Feature Rules' schema.

'''Graphical'''
*Level screenshot thumbnails now support RTX and Deferred Technical Preview worlds.
*Particle Emitters that use the {{cd|minecraft:particle_appearance_lighting}} component now use the correct light level instead of the world's origin light level.

'''[[Item]]s'''
*Trimmed custom armor item icons now appear correctly when their icon texture name includes a namespace or does not match the item name.
*Introduced {{cd|slot.armor.body}} as an extra armor slot for entities like Horses, limited to a single armor item but needing the effects of a full armor set. (beta)
**{{cd|slot.armor.body}} is supported by:
***Commands. (even if no suitable item is currently available for manipulation)
***{{cd|minecraft:attachable}}.
***{{cd|minecraft:interact}}.
***{{cd|query.armor_texture_slot}}. (with value 4)
***{{cd|query.armor_color_slot}}. (with value 4)
***{{cd|query.armor_damage_slot}}. (with value 4)
***{{cd|query.equipment_count}}.
***{{cd|has_equipment}} entity filter. (with domain {{cd|body}})
***{{cd|all_slots_empty}} entity filter. (with domain {{cd|body}})
***{{cd|any_slot_empty}} entity filter. (with domain {{cd|body}})
**{{cd|slot.armor.body}} is not supported by:
***{{cd|minecraft:wearable}}.
**Future adjustments may alter how items equipped to {{cd|slot.armor.body}} affect entity visibility (intended as how easy an entity is detected by other entities), enchantments, and armor protection.

'''[[Molang]]'''
*Released {{cd|state_time}} which no longer requires the "Upcoming Creator Features" toggle.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
*{{cd|BlockRecordPlayerComponent}}
*Added {{cd|UIManager}} class and {{cd|uiManager}} object to {{cd|@minecraft/server-ui}} {{cd|beta}}.
**Renamed the {{cd|componentId}} to {{cd|minecraft:record_player}} for consistency.
**Added methods {{cd|getRecord}}, {{cd|ejectRecord}}, {{cd|pauseRecord}} and {{cd|playRecord}}.
**Removed method {{cd|clearRecord}}, instead you should now pass {{cd|undefined}} to {{cd|setRecord}} to reset it.
**Removed property {{cd|readonly}} {{cd|getLifetimeState: EntityLifetimeState}} from {{cd|beta}}.
*Removed enum {{cd|EntityLifetimeState}} from {{cd|beta}}.
**Move {{cd|setBlockPermutation(location: Vector3, permutation: BlockPermutation): void}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|12.0}}.
**Move {{cd|setBlockType(location: Vector3, blockType: BlockType | string): void}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|12.0}}.
**Moved {{cd|getTags(): string[]}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|12.0}}.
**Moved {{cd|hasTag(tag: string): boolean}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|12.0}}.
**Removed property {{cd|readonly}} {{cd|fallDistance: number}} from {{cd|beta}}.

'''Components'''
*{{cd|EntityLeashableComponent}}
**Added property {{cd|canBeStolen: boolean}}.
**Added property {{cd|hardDistance: number}}.
**Added property {{cd|leashHolder: Entity}}.
**Added property {{cd|leashHolderEntityId: string}}.
**Added property {{cd|maxDistance: number}}.
**Added property {{cd|isLeashed: boolean}}.
**Renamed function {{cd|leash(leashHolder: Entity): void}} to {{cd|leashTo(leashHolder: Entity): void}}.

'''General'''
*Updated the Hide Paperdoll toggle to default to false for Chromebooks.
*Added the "Creator Cameras: New Third Person Presets" experiment and toggle which contains:
**New {{cd|minecraft:follow_orbit}} preset that is accessible by the {{cmd|/camera}} command and can have a view offset.

'''Graphical'''
*Removed an errant 10 times multiplier in atmospheric scattering in the Deferred Technical Preview.
**This is expected to cause skies in existing packs to become darker and will require content creators to multiply their Rayleigh Strength, Mie Sun Strength, and Mie Moon Strength each by a factor of 10 to achieve the same visual result as before.
*Corrected an issue with the ACES tonemapper in the Deferred Technical Preview on Android. ACES tonemapping should now provide the expected results on Android. This should cause no changes on other platforms.
*Volumetric fog density settings are now supported for weather when a {{cd|format_version}} of 1.21.0 or higher is specified in the Deferred Technical Preview.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.10.20 Preview
|;old
|54855|Continuous slab placing causes slabs to change from upper to lower
|61891|Locator Maps Show a 3D Model Of Players Head, Capes, Elytra and Armor
|120910|Scaffolding flickers like blocks and as an item drop (when moving away from them)
|168757|Items in the off-hand slot cannot be removed by tapping on an item in the Creative inventory unless the item has a + icon next to it
|173506|Items stay selected between creative tabs
|177684|Marketplace downloads stuck at 0%
|178884|Bogged can inflict slowness by melee attacking
|178937|{{cmd|summon}} command do not have "Wind_Charge" Entity
|179661|Breeze rod is not held correctly, unlike the blaze rod
|179726|Oak leaves particles appear when you break acacia leaves
|179754|Maces can break cobwebs and bamboo
|180275|Item moves slightly in slot after being quick moved to anvil
|180337|Fishing bobber is not deflected when hitting a breeze's head
|180712|Item renders in front of stack size number when being quick moved
|180864|Regeneration hearts animation is much faster than it should be
|180962|Mace smash attack can knockback tamed mobs
|180964|Petrified oak ("wooden") slabs are not converted properly
|181338|Item stack count renders above hover text
|181364|{{cmd|camera set}} behaves incorrectly when run during an existing camera interpolation
|181455|The top texture of active and inactive trial spawner is not consistent
|181496|Wind burst can prevent players from taking fall damage
|otherissuescount=6}}
'''Others'''
* Music will no longer be stopped by the {{cmd|/stopsound}} command.
* The sound emitted when a player walks on a Heavy Core Block is now controlled by the appropriate slider in the audio preferences.
* Fixed an issue that caused sideloaded {{cd|.mcpack}} files to fail to apply when uploading to Realms.
* Fixed a bug that prevented {{cd|get}} and {{cd|StructureManager.place}} from loading structures stored in the root of the structures directory.
* Fixed a bug that caused the game to crash when executing a run command from the {{cd|runCommand()}} and {{cd|Dimension.runCommandAsync()}} scripting APIs.
* Fixed a bug where interacting, while sneaking, with Command, Jigsaw, and Structure blocks could cause the UI to open/close multiple times.
{{fixes|project=REALMS|fixedin=1.21.10.20 Preview
|;old
|11625|Environment within a chunk may noticeably change when getting close to the chunk when thousands of blocks away from spawn
|otherissuescount=0}}</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{fnlist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.20 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.10.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.10.20]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock Preview 1.21.10.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.10.20]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.10.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.10.20]]