{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.15.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.15.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.15<br>
|image=Bedrock 1.13.0.15 Character Creator.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.13.0.15.png
|parent=1.13.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' September 19, 2019
|prevparent=1.12.1
|prev=beta 1.13.0.13
|next=beta 1.13.0.16
|nextparent=1.13.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.15''' is the eighth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]], released on September 19, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360033538652|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.15 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=September 19, 2019}}</ref> which adds a [[character creator]] and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''Accessibility'''
* Added a new option in the Accessibility settings that allows users to not auto-enable Text-To-Speech when their platform has it enabled. ({{bug|MCPE-43306}})

'''[[Character creator]]'''
* Allows the player to personalize their avatar in many ways, including body size and shape, limb replacement and tweaking of eyes, mouth, hair styles and colors, facial hair, and skin tones.
** More than 100 items are available for free. There is also a range of custom accessories available for purchase.
* Traditional custom skins can still be imported as before on Windows 10 and mobile.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Replaced the hanger button with a "Profile" button.
* Moved the "Achievements" button to the "Profile" screen.

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Can no longer be crafted using damaged [[bow]]s.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Farmers now sell [[suspicious stew]]. ({{bug|MCPE-51215}})

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that would occur after eating or drinking a single item. ({{bug|MCPE-51978}})
* Fixed a crash related to the EvocationFang animation.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to apply a texture pack with a custom sized cube map.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when being attacked by an elder guardian. ({{bug|MCPE-52026}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when losing an internet connection whilst downloading a Marketplace pack.
* Mob spawners and cave spiders no longer show error logs and crash the game. ({{bug|MCPE-52008}}, {{bug|MCPE-52273}}, {{bug|MCPE-52282}})

'''Performance'''
* Made further optimization improvements by removing unused vanilla textures.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue that was preventing custom skins from being applied. ({{bug|MCPE-52102}})
* Jillager now changes her profession correctly in the "Traveling Trader" Marketplace map.
* Free skins now roam between devices correctly again.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue with crafting various tools that were missing in the recipe book.
* Eating chorus fruit now teleports the player correctly again.

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed various mob head animations so they are facing the correct direction when sitting, sleeping or eating. ({{bug|MCPE-52251}}, {{bug|MCPE-51216}})
* Pillagers riding ravagers now sit correctly while celebrating a raid victory. ({{bug|MCPE-51266}})
* Tweaked drowned despawning rules, to help prevent too many being present in the world. ({{bug|MCPE-34032}})
** Drowned now despawn if the following conditions are met: the player is at least 54 blocks away, the drowned has not performed any actions in at least 30 seconds, and it is day time.
* Fixed panda animation and leash positioning.

'''Blocks'''
* Barrier blocks once again transmit redstone correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-51816}})
* Leaves destroyed by explosions no longer leave an invisible block behind. 

'''Items'''
* Broken elytra now have the correct texture again. ({{bug|MCPE-47758}})
* Elytra once again loses durability through use.
* Chorus fruit is now back in the correct inventory tab. ({{bug|MCPE-49889}})
* Semi-transparent block items are no longer fully opaque. ({{bug|MCPE-51991}}) 

'''User interface'''
* Book items show their descriptions again correctly when trading with a librarian villager. ({{bug|MCPE-51311}})
* Fixed a bug that was preventing the chat history from being scrolled through.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed the shading direction for clouds. ({{bug|MCPE-47814}})
* The camera transition between standing and swimming is now smooth again.
* Fixed an issue that could cause the UI to flicker when playing in a split-screen multiplayer game. 
* Leads attached to mobs no longer appear to be floating in the air. ({{bug|MCPE-51981}})

'''Commands'''
* Cauldrons now have the correct '{{cd|fill_level}}' data when placed with the '{{cmd|setblock}}' command.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* The ghast "look at player" behavior is no longer hardcoded.
* Fixed an issue that meant entities with "{{cd|minecraft:is_stackable}}" tag could push each other into and through full blocks.
* Custom projectile entities can now have their physics defined in a pack, without having to override vanilla behaviors.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.15]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.15]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.15]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.15]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.15]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.15 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.15]]