{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.0.59.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.59.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.59.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.0.59<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' April 30, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.16.0.58
|next=beta 1.16.0.60
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.0.59''' is the eleventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]], released on April 30, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360042961851|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.0.59 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=April 30, 2020}}</ref> which makes some parity changes and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Iron Chain|Chain]]s'''
* Can now be crafted.

'''[[Trapdoor|Crimson trapdoor]]s'''
* IDs have been changed from {{cd|crimson_trap_door}} to {{cd|crimson_trapdoor}}.

'''[[Nether sprouts]]'''
* Changed the texture to match ''Java Edition''.

'''[[Basalt|Polished basalt]]'''
* Can now be crafted by putting [[basalt]] in a stonecutter.
* Crafting polished basalt now gives the player the correct amount of blocks in return.

'''[[Soul fire]]'''
* Now burns on [[soul sand]] in addition to [[soul soil]].
* Renamed "Blue Fire" to "Soul Fire"

'''[[Warped wart block]]s'''
* IDs have been changed from {{cd|blue_nether_wart_block}} to {{cd|warped_wart_block}}.

=== Items === 
'''[[Banner pattern]]s'''
* Renamed the piglin banner pattern to "Snout".

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* The texture of the [[piglin]] and [[hoglin]] spawn eggs now match ''Java Edition''.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Hoglin]]s'''
* Added sounds for converting into [[zoglin]]s.
* Baby hoglins now have larger heads.
* Now flee from [[zoglin]]s.

'''[[Piglin]]s'''
* Now flee from [[zoglin]]s.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Bastion remnant]]s'''
* A magma cube [[monster Spawner|spawner]] can now be found in the treasure room.
* Changed loot tables, removing and adding some items.

'''[[Ruined portal]]s'''
* Will now generate made out of [[blackstone]] if generated in the Nether, instead of Nether bricks.
* Tweaked chest loot.
* Now generate less frequently.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to stack different types of slab ({{bug|MCPE-73435}}).

'''General'''
* Removed quotation marks from loading screen tips.
* Fixed the issue with ambient noises playing too frequently in the Nether ({{bug|MCPE-69154}}).
* Renamed various blocks, and renamed JSON files to reflect changed block names ({{bug|MCPE-65390}}).
* The “Change Emotes” button is no longer missing on Android devices ({{bug|MCPE-69082}}).
* The "p" in "Pigstep" music disc is now capitalized ({{bug|MCPE-70466}}). 
* Adjusted hopper hitbox shape ({{bug|MCPE-47541}}) 
* Nether sprouts item texture no longer extends outside the bounds of an item frame when rotated.

'''Gameplay'''
* Spawned cave mobs aren't counted as surface mobs anymore ({{bug|MCPE-41273}}). 
* Added nether wood crafting recipes and make them not burn as fuel in furnaces ({{bug|MCPE-65391}}).  
* Fire now ticks properly, and can be extinguished by rain ({{bug|MCPE-69072}}). 
* Added chain crafting recipe ({{bug|MCPE-69089}}). 
* Added fire sound for soul fire ({{bug|MCPE-66899}}). 
* Gold ore can now be smelted in furnaces and blast furnaces ({{bug|MCPE-68978}}).  
* Smelting ancient debris now gives XP ({{bug|MCPE-65787}}). 
* Quartz bricks can be now only be crafted quartz blocks.
* Warped and crimson stems can no longer replace blocks when grown or are generated ({{bug|MCPE-65661}}).  
* Shields can now be dispensed and equipped to players. 
* Fortune enchantment now works again ({{bug|MCPE-67169}}).  
* Pumpkins and melons will now grow when underneath observers ({{bug|MCPE-48717}}). 
* Fixed a bug that would cause the ender dragon to reset after leaving and returning to fight area ({{bug|MCPE-51501}}).
* Fixed an issue with too many cats spawning in villages ({{bug|MCPE-60331}}).

'''Mobs'''
* Hoglins no longer spin around when moving down full blocks. 
* Fixed bug in `MeleeAttackGoal` where mobs would not attack if they were sitting in a boat or minecart.  
* Tweaked spawn rates for piglins, hoglins, and zombified piglins. 
* Piglins now correctly equip golden armor when it is thrown to them.
* Piglins that are admiring now drop gold ingot if one-shotted. 
* Hoglin and strider babies now have the lead attached at the correct spot  
* Zombified piglins are now immune to fire damage ({{bug|MCPE-65381}}).
* Also changed the ‘fireimmune’ attribute to be correct for multiple mobs. 
* Wither skeletons now render armor correctly.
* Fixed a bug where a mob could catch on fire if it was standing on an entity that was in lava.
* Bees no longer get stuck under stairs ({{bug|MCPE-61625}}).
* Tweaked the baby strider hitbox which was too small.
* Mobs now correctly equip netherite armor. 
* Piglins can now exist in Peaceful difficulty ({{bug|MCPE-65405}}). 
* Piglins no longer hover when aboard boats and minecarts ({{bug|MCPE-68258}}). 
* Endermen can now spawn in the soul sand valley biome. 
* Piglins and hoglins now flee from zoglins ({{bug|MCPE-69784}}). 
* The correct sound now plays when hoglins transform into Zoglins.

'''World generation'''
* Ruined portals in nether now use blackstone.
* Fire charges can now be found in ruined portal chests.
* Tweaked ruined portal loot tables - changed number of rolls to match Java. 
* Updated bastion loot tables ({{bug|MCPE-69005}}, {{bug|MCPE-68986}}).
* Magma cube spawners now generate inside bastions ({{bug|MCPE-69424}}). 
* Walls in generated structures now form the proper connections ({{bug|MCPE-66369}}).

'''Graphical'''
* Golden tools that are being examined by piglins render correctly in their hands ({{bug|MCPE-72477}}, {{bug|MCPE-70868}}). 
* Piglins arms now swing correctly when walking.
* Fire now burns blue when burning on soul sand ({{bug|MCPE-65429}}).

'''User interface'''
* Fixed iOS keyboard covering the text input box when typing ({{bug|MCPE-53030}}).</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* Minecraft Feedback site misspells "Quartz Bricks can now only be crafted using Quartz blocks" as "Quartz Bricks can be now only be crafted Quartz blocks".

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.59]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.59]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.0.59]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.59]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.0.59]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.0.59 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.0.59]]