{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.020.52}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.20.52.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.2052.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.2052.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.20.52<br>
|parent=1.16.20
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' July 13, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.10
|prev=beta 1.16.20.51
|next=beta 1.16.20.53
|nextparent=1.16.21
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.20.52''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.20]], released on July 13, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360045710751|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.20.52 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=July 13, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
* Pressure plates have been fixed to have no collision again ({{bug|MCPE-80276}})
* Local split-screen players can once again see the ender dragon and ender crystal ({{bug|MCPE-67596}})
* Fixed a crash that occurred on PlayStation 4 due to other players using custom skins.
* The Angry system now checks if the mob with the angry component can attack before broadcasting anger to others, rather than after broadcasting anger to others. This avoids a never-ending loop when multiple mobs triggered each other’s anger indefinitely on peaceful.
* The {{cd|rider_can_interact}} field on {{cd|minecraft:rideable}} is now used again.
* Behavior animation components will no longer try to reload after a suspend resume and a mob/player rides something.
* Drowned geometry is no longer broken in content packs.
* Zombies can spawn underground again ({{bug|MCPE-52743}}).
* Making command selectors use the current position of an actor rather than the previous position of an actor.
* Fixed an issue that could prevent the Marketplace loading correctly. 
* Meeting requirements for some achievements offline will now unlock it after reconnecting.
* Fixed an issue that could cause command blocks to stop working unexpectedly.
* The bounding box of the player used for spawning is now the correct size, so we don't think a player is in a dangerous spot when they are actually safe.
* Parity: Fixed the issue with chests with loot tables not generating loot until opened or destroyed. 
* Made using the {{cmd|fill}} command more efficient, improving performance.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when pressing the Manage Account button in Profile settings.
* Fixed notifications not appearing on iOS.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.20.52]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.20.52]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.20.52]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.20.52]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.20.52]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.20.52 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.20.52]]