{{distinguish|Bedrock Edition 1.20.1}}
{{Dangerous version|The game could crash on iOS and iPadOS. This was fixed in [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.12]].
| type = crash
| edition=bedrock
| version=release
}}{{Infobox version
| title = v1.20.10
| image = Bedrock 1.20.10 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.10.png
| vernum = 1.20.10
| edition = Bedrock
| build = 16272119
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.1001.0<br>'''ChromeOS, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire''': 1.20.10.01<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.1101.70<br>'''PlayStation 4''': 2.68<br>'''Nintendo Switch''': v84
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952001001 (armeabi-v7a, 33)<br />
962001001 (x86, 33)<br />
972001001 (arm64-v8a, 33)<br />
982001001 (x86_64, 33)
| server = [[Bedrock Dedicated Server 1.20.10.01|1.20.10.01]]<br>[[Bedrock Dedicated Server 1.20.11.01|1.20.11.01]]
| serverdl = '''Server 1.20.10.01'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.20.10.01.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.20.10.01.zip Linux]<br>'''Server 1.20.11.01'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.20.11.01.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.20.11.01.zip Linux]
| date = July 11, 2023
| prevparent = 1.20.0
| prev = 1.20.1
| next = 1.20.12
| nextparent = 1.20.50
}}

'''1.20.10''' ('''1.20.11''' on Xbox) is a minor update to {{BE}} released on July 11, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/17381681401357|title=Minecraft - 1.20.10 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=July 11, 2023}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/documents/update1.20.10?view=minecraft-bedrock-stable|title=Minecraft Bedrock 1.20.10 Update Notes for Creators|website=Microsoft Learn|date=July 22, 2025}}</ref> which brings more parity from {{JE}} and fixes bugs.

==Additions==
===General===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]]'''
*Added "Crawling" experimental toggle.
**Allow players [[Crawling|crawl]] under 1 block gaps.
*Added "Recipe Unlocking" experimental toggle.
** Enable the new recipe unlocking system and the {{cmd|recipe}} [[command]].

'''[[Settings]]'''
*Added the slider "GUI Scale Modifier" to the accessibility section.
*Added "Extra Large GUI Scaling" accessibility and video option, to make the UI "bigger" (only works on some devices).

'''[[Splash]]es'''
*Added a new splash text:
**Joule is neat too!

===Technical===
'''[[JSON]]'''
*Released the following components out of [[experimental]] in JSON formats 1.20.10 and higher: 
**<code>minecraft:cooldown</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:repairable</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:max_stack_size</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:block_placer</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:record</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:shooter</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:throwable</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:projectile</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:can_destroy_in_creative</code> item component.
**<code>minecraft:hover_text_color</code> item component.
*Added <code>unlock</code> field to the [[recipe]] JSON format.

==Changes ==
===Blocks===
'''[[Barrel]]'''
*Recipe now use [[planks]] instead of [[stick]]s to match {{JE}}.

'''[[Concrete]]'''
*The IDs of <code>concrete</code> have now been split up into their own IDs.

'''[[Decorated Pot]]'''
*If they crafted with at least one [[pottery sherd]] now have a hover tooltip displaying the [[pottery sherd]] and [[brick]] ingredients.

'''[[Note Block]]'''
*Now produces the "harp" sound instead of "snare" using [[soul soil]].

'''[[Packed Mud]] '''
*Can no longer mine faster with a [[shovel]].

'''[[Sculk Sensor]]'''
*Can now detect the following events: 
**Placing, rotating, or removing an item in an [[item frame]] or a [[glow item frame]].
**Charging a [[respawn anchor]].
** Scraping or applying wax to blocks of the copper block set.
**Switching a [[daylight detector]] to an inverted daylight detector or vice-versa.
** Adding food to a [[campfire]].
** Adding or removing a [[music disc]] to a [[jukebox]].
**[[Mud]] turning into [[clay]].
**Harvesting [[sweet berries]].
**Placing an [[eye of ender]] in an [[end portal frame]].
** [[Bees]] entering or exiting a [[beehive]] or a [[bee nest]].
**Interacting with [[composter]].
**Attaching or detaching a [[lead]] from a [[fence]].
**Attaching or detaching a lead from a mob.
**Dying a [[sheep]].
**Picking [[glow berries]].
**[[Farmland]] turning into [[dirt]].
** Using a [[spawn egg]] on a [[monster spawner]].
**[[Silverfish]] merging with blocks.
** Using a [[hoe]] on [[rooted dirt]].
**Using a [[shovel]] to create [[dirt path]]s.
**Placing a [[door]].
**Planting seeds in [[farmland]].

'''[[Shulker Box]]'''
*The IDs of <code>shulker_box</code> have now been split up into their own IDs.

===Command format===
'''[[Block states]]'''
*Now "equals" (<code>=</code>) are used instead of "colons" (<code>:</code>) to match {{JE}}.
**Example: <code>oak_log["pillar_axis"''':'''"x"]</code> -> <code>oak_log["pillar_axis"'''='''"x"]</code>

'''[[Observer]]'''
*Now uses the <code>minecraft:facing_direction</code> [[block state]] instead of <code>facing_direction</code>. 
**<code>minecraft:facing_direction</code> has six values <code>["down", "up", "north", "south", "east", "west"]</code>.

===Gameplay===
'''[[Sneaking]]'''
* Sneak under 1.5 blocks tall is now available without the "Short Sneaking/Short Sneaking and Crawling" experimental toggle.
*Players can now be forced into sneak state while flying.

'''[[Sound]]'''
* Camera position is now used for audio listening and ambient sounds.
** Previously the player position and rotation were sometimes used for audio listening.

'''[[Rendering engine]] '''
*Rendering of snow or rain is now based on camera position instead of player position.

=== General===
'''[[Experiments]]'''
*Renamed the "Short Sneaking" experimental toggle to "Short Sneaking and Crawling". ("Removed/Changed" later in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.10.23|beta/preview 1.20.10.23]])
**Now also contains the ability to [[Crawling|crawl]].

'''[[Fog]] '''
*Underwater and fog effects are now based on camera position rather than player position.

'''[[Settings]]'''
*"Chat message duration" accessibility option is now set to 10 seconds by default.
*"Text to Speech" narrator now reads item names when selecting items in the hotbar and the "/" button in the chat screen.

===Items===
'''[[Boat]]s'''
*Recipe no longer needs a [[shovel]] to match {{JE}}.

'''[[Cobweb]]'''
*Now can't craft into [[string]]s to match {{JE}}.

===Mobs=== 
'''[[Horse]], [[Mule]], and [[Donkey]]'''
*Can now be tempted using a [[golden apple]], [[golden carrot]], or [[enchanted golden apple]]. 

'''[[Llama]]'''
* Can now be tempted using a [[hay bale]].

'''[[Magma Cube]]'''
*Can now be affected from [[Jump Boost]].

===World generation=== 
'''[[Chiseled Deepslate]] and [[Polished Basalt]]'''
*Can no longer be replaced by [[sculk]].

'''[[Polished Deepslate]]'''
* Can now be replaced by [[sculk]].

'''Fallen [[Tree]]s'''
*Now generate with [[mushroom]]s again.

===Technical ===
'''[[JSON]]'''
*Added deprecation error message for the <code>part_visibility</code> component.
*Fixed an issue where adding a <code>minecraft:peek</code> component to a custom entity would cause the game to crash.
*Updated the <code>minecraft:geometry</code> block component to allow bone visibility to be defined with a [[molang]] expression.
*Added a content error when <code>minecraft:balloonable</code> is used on <code>minecraft:player</code> to prevent issues as this component is not supported in this way.
*Invalid JSON objects within the entity component <code>minecraft:behavior.nearest_attackable_target</code> will no longer crash the game.

==Experimental==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Crawling", "Recipe Unlocking", "Beta APIs", and "Experimental Cameras" experimental toggles.
===Additions===
====Command format====
'''{{cmd|recipe}} '''
*A new [[command]] that gives or takes (unlocks or locks) [[recipe]]s for a player.
*Syntax: 
**<code>/recipe <victim: target> give <recipe: string></code>
***Gives (unlocks) a specified recipe to a player.
**<code>/recipe <victim: target> take <recipe: string></code>
***Takes (locks) a specified recipe from a player.
**If <code>*</code> is specified in <code>recipe: string</code>, it will unlock or lock all recipes for the player.

==== Gameplay====
'''[[Crawling]]'''
*Added the ability to [[Crawling|crawl]].
** Created new player crawling animation.
**Players will now begin crawling when in a 1 block gap, similar to sneaking.
**Crawling is the same speed as sneaking.
**Players will automatically stand up or begin [[sneaking]] if they leave the 1 block gap.
*Players can now be forced into crawl state while flying.

===Changes===
====Command format====
'''{{cmd|camera}}'''
*Changed camera command fade color to take integer values from <code>0</code> to <code>255</code> rather than <code>0.0</code> to <code>1.0</code> fractional values.
*Camera fade command now enforces fade duration limits; fade in, hold, and fade out must be between <code>0</code> and <code>10</code> seconds.
*Ensuring camera pitch can only be between <code>-90</code> and <code>90</code> degrees.
*Added <code>example:example_player_listener</code> camera preset.
*Added <code>example:example_player_effects</code> camera preset.
*Rendering of experimental <code>minecraft:free</code> camera no longer affected by player state like night vision.

====Gameplay====
'''[[Recipe book]]'''
*Recipes are now unlocked when the player collect materials for it.
**Picking up an item teaches the player how to craft that item.
*A new notification appears when the player find a new crafting material.

====Technical==== 
'''API '''
*Dynamic properties can now optionally have default values.
*Increased dynamic property registration limits:
**Actors: <code>~1KB</code> -> <code>128KB</code>
**World: <code>~10KB</code> -> <code>1MB</code>
*<code>ScreenDisplay</code>
**Removed <code>clearTitle()-</code> Use <code>setTitle</code> with an empty string to clear the title.
**Updated <code>fadeInSeconds</code>, <code>staySeconds</code>, <code>fadeOutSeconds</code> to <code>fadeInDuration</code>, <code>stayDuration</code>, <code>fadeOutDuration</code> on <code>TitleDisplayOptions</code> (seconds to ticks).
**Updated <code>setTitle</code> to reset the times per each new title.
**Added <code>RawMessage</code> support for <code>setTitle</code>, <code>updateSubtitle</code>, and <code>setActionBar</code>.
*''Entity''
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isGliding-</code> Returns whether the player is gliding with elytra.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isJumping-</code> Returns whether the player is using the jump action.
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>sFlying-</code> Returns whether the player is flying (e.g. creative or spectator mode).
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isSprinting-</code> Returns whether the entity is sprinting.
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isSwimming-</code> Returns whether the entity is swimming.
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isClimbing-</code> Returns whether the entity is climbing (e.g. player on a ladder or spider on a wall).
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isOnGround-</code> Returns whether the entity is on the ground.
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isInWater-</code> Returns whether the entity is in water.
**Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>isFalling-</code> Returns whether the entity is falling.
** Added <code>read-only</code> property <code>fallDistance-</code> Returns the current fall distance (used for calculating fall damage).
**Added function <code>fly-</code> Makes the player fly (e.g. creative or spectator mode).
**Added function <code>stopFlying-</code> Makes the player stop flying (e.g. creative or spectator mode).
**Added function <code>glide-</code> Makes the player glide with elytra.
**Added function <code>stopGliding-</code> Makes the player stop gliding with elytra.
** Added function <code>swim-</code> Makes the player swim.
**Added function <code>stopSwimming-</code> Makes the player stop swimming.
*''Entity'' effects
**Updated function <code>addEffect(effectType: EffectType | string, duration: number, options?: EntityEffectOptions): void</code> to return void and to throw if the effect does not exist or the parameters are out of bounds.
**Updated function <code>getEffect(effectType: EffectType | string): Effect | undefined</code> to throw if the effect does not exist.
**Updated function <code>removeEffect(effectType: EffectType | string): boolean</code> to throw if the effect does not exist.
*<code>BlockEvents</code>
**Added events <code>PressurePlatePushEvent</code>, <code>PressurePlatePopEvent</code>, <code>TargetBlockHitEvent</code>, and <code>TripWireTripEvent</code>.
*<code>ContainerSlot</code>
**Removed function <code>clone-</code>.
*<code>EntityHealableComponent</code>
**Removed <code>filters: FilterGroupproperty</code>.
*<code>EntityAttributeComponent</code>
**Added <code>effectiveMin: number</code> Returns the minimum possible value for the component.
**Added <code>effectiveMax: number</code> Return the maximum possible value for the component.
** Renamed <code>value</code> property to <code>defaultValue</code>.
**Renamed <code>current</code> property to <code>currentValue</code>.
**Renamed <code>setCurrent</code> method to <code>setCurrentValue</code>.
*Added <code>EntityHealthChangedAfterEvent</code> It is triggered when any health change happens for an entity.
* System
**Replaced <code>events</code> with <code>system.beforeEvents</code> and <code>system.afterEvents</code>.
**Renamed event <code>beforeWatchdogTerminate</code> to <code>watchdogTerminate</code> and moved it to <code>beforeEvents</code>.
**Moved <code>scriptEventReceive</code> to <code>afterEvents</code>.
*MessageReceiveAfterEvent
**Removed property <code>sourceType</code>.
*<code>ScriptEventSource</code>
**Replaced enum <code>MessageSourceTypewith</code> a new enum <code>ScriptEventSource</code>.
*<code>ScriptEventCommandMessageAfterEvent</code>
**Changed property <code>sourceType</code> from <code>MessageSourceType</code> to <code>ScriptEventSource</code>.
**Increased maximum message length from 256 to 2048 characters.
*Dynamic Property identifiers are now limited to <code>1024</code> characters.
*Removed MinecraftEffectTypes defined in <code>@minecraft/server</code>.
*Moved several APIs to stable <code>1.30</code>.
**Moving <code>tryTeleport(location: Vector3, duration: number, options: ScriptTeleportOptions)</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moving <code>teleport(location: Vector3, options: ScriptTeleportOptions)</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>function getComponent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>world event PlayerJoinAfterEvent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>world event PlayerLeaveAfterEvent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
** Moved <code>world event PlayerSpawnAfterEvent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>EntityComponent EntityHealableComponent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>EntityComponent EntityHealthComponent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>class FeedItem</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
** Moved <code>class FeedItemEffect</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>addEffect(effectType: string | EffectType, duration: number, options: EntityEffectOptions)</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>getEffect(effectType: string | EffectType)</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>getEffects</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved <code>removeEffect(effectType: string | EffectType)</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**<code>AfterEvents</code> 
***Moved <code>ButtonPushEvent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
***Moved <code>LeverActivateEvent</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved function <code>spawnEntity</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
**Moved function <code>spawnItem</code> to <code>3.0</code>.
*Spawnpoint updates
**Removed function <code>clearSpawn</code>.
**Removed property <code>spawnDimension</code>.
**Added function <code>getSpawnPoint: DimensionLocation | undefined</code> - Returns the player's spawn point.
**Added function <code>setSpawnPoint(spawnPoint?: DimensionLocation): void</code> - Sets the player's spawn point, or clears it if spawnPoint is undefined.
** Renamed function <code>getDefaultSpawnPosition</code> to <code>getDefaultSpawnLocation</code>.
**Renamed function <code>setDefaultSpawn</code> to <code>setDefaultSpawnLocation</code>.
**<code>DimensionLocation</code>
***Added new interface <code>DimensionLocation</code> - Represents a location in a dimension.
** Added <code>hasParticipantfunction</code> to <code>ScoreboardObjective</code>.
**The following functions in <code>ScoreboardObjective</code> can now accept Entity or string types as participants:
***<code>getScore</code>
***<code>setScore</code>
**<code>removeParticipant</code>
**Removed <code>getScore</code>, <code>setScore</code> from <code>ScoreboardIdentity</code> and <code>Scoreboard</code>.
* Removed the <code>removeFromObjective</code> function from <code>ScoreboardIdentity</code>.
*''Raycasting''
**Changed function <code>getBlockFromRay</code>.
***Changed return type from <code>Block</code> to <code>BlockRaycastHit | undefined</code>.
**Changed function <code>getEntitiesFromRay</code>.
*** Changed return type from <code>Entity[]</code> to <code>EntityRaycastHit[]</code>.
**Changed function <code>getBlockFromViewDirection</code>.
***Changed return type from <code>Block</code>to <code>BlockRaycastHit | undefined</code>.
**Changed function <code>getEntitiesFromViewDirection</code>. 
***Changed return type from <code>Entity[]</code> to <code>EntityRaycastHit[]</code>.
**Added interface <code>BlockRaycastHit</code>.
**Added interface <code>EntityRaycastHit</code>.
*Renamed <code>leverActivate</code> after event to <code>leverAction</code>.
**Removed class <code>EntityHitAfterEvent</code>.
**Added class <code>EntityHitBlockAfterEvent</code>.
** Added class <code>EntityHitEntityAfterEvent</code>.
** Class <code>WorldAfterEvents</code>.
***Removed property <code>entityHit</code>.
***Added property <code>entityHitBlock</code>.
*** Added property <code>entityHitEntity</code>.
** Added helper function <code>isValid</code> to several classes in order to check if the object is valid. This can safely be used on any handle to a native object before accessing or using the object, to ensure the underlying object still exists and is valid to use.
***<code>Block</code> (checks the block is a valid position in bounds and the containing chunk is loaded & ticking).
*** <code>Container</code> (checks the relevant container inventory exists and is valid).
***<code>Effect</code> (checks the owning entity is valid and the effect exists on that entity).
***<code>ScreenDisplay</code> (checks the owning player is valid).
***<code>ScoreboardObjective</code> (checks the objective entry exists and is attached to a valid scoreboard).
***<code>Entity</code> (checks that the entity exists in the world. Will return true if the entity is dead). 
**** <code>Player</code>
****<code>SimulatedPlayer</code> (Note simulated players do not automatically get removed from the world, so <code>isValid</code> will return true long after they are dead).
***<code>ContainerSlot</code> (checks the item context is <code>valid: Container</code> exists in the world, such as the owning entity, and the slot is within the container bounds).
****Already existed as a readonly property, changed to a method for consistency.
***<code>Component</code>
****<code>EntityAttributeComponent</code> (checks the owning entity is valid and the attribute exists on the entity).
****<code>BlockLiquidContainerComponent</code> (checks block exists and is a valid cauldron type).
*****Added read only method isValidLiquidwhich checks if the liquid in the cauldron matches the component in question (EG. <code>BlockLavaContainerComponent</code> checks for lava liquid).
****<code>EntityComponent</code> (checks the owning entity exists).
****<code>ItemComponent</code> (checks the owning item exists).
*World
**Renamed <code>getTime</code> to <code>getTimeOfDay</code>.
**Renamed <code>setTime</code> to <code>setTimeOfDay</code>.
**<code>setTimeOfDay</code> now accepts a <code>TimeOfDay</code> enum as an argument.
**The <code>timeOfDay</code> argument for <code>setTime</code> must now be within <code>0</code>-<code>23999</code> (inclusive).
**Added <code>getDay</code>.
*Updated the following enums' values to be <code>PascalCase</code> instead of <code>camelCase</code>.
**<code>ClipboardMirrorAxis</code>
**<code>ClipboardRotation</code>
**<code>HttpRequestMethod</code>
**<code>FormCancelationReason</code>
** <code>Direction</code>
**<code>DisplaySlotId</code>
**<code>EntityLifetimeState</code>
**<code>FluidType</code>
**<code>ObjectiveSortOrder</code>
**<code>ScoreboardIdentityType</code>
**<code>ScriptEventSource</code>
**<code>SignSide</code>
**<code>WatchdogTerminateReason</code>
**<code>WeatherType</code> 

'''[[JSON]]'''
*Items with the <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> component will now place blocks with correct orientation.
*Items in format version 1.20.10 and above with the <code>minecraft:throwable</code> component will trigger "item use" events when thrown.
*Custom items with <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> will no longer place certain blocks in the wrong location.
*Changed <code>minecraft:shooter</code> to only consume ammo when charging the item if <code>charge_on_draw</code> is set <code>true</code>.
*Deprecate <code>minecraft:render_offsets</code> component in JSON formats 1.20.10 and higher.

==Fixes==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.10.20 Preview, 1.20.10.21 Preview, 1.20.10.23 Preview|otherissuescount=21
|;old
|46795|Cannot move items if "Quick Move" isn't canceled.
|54294|Jump boost has no effect on magma cubes.
|122663|Player model isn't centered when swimming.
|123608|Transparent leaves overlap with opaque leaves.
|138333|Fallen trees do not spawn with mushroom anymore
|142918|Holding two shields in RTX only shows you one.
|152002|<code>hasitem</code> doesn't check items in the cursor, unlike {{cmd|clear}}.
|153446|Cape when riding a boat changes its position (folds up) when you turn the camera.
|155371|Sculk sensor doesn't detect composter changes.
|155372|Placing an eye of ender doesn't produce a vibration.
|156199|Sculk sensors don't detect most game events post-Java 1.19 Pre-release 1.
|156444|Horse / donkey jump meter isn't the same length as the experience bar.
|156575|Xbox: On screen keyboard won't move and is in front of the sign and chat.
|157409|Sculk sensors do not detect respawn anchors charging.
|160189|Item drop location for inventory contents of storage entities is offset to the southeast.
|160238|Sculk patches don't replace polished deepslate upon world gen inside ancient city.
|161207|Packed mud can be mined faster with a shovel.
|162785|Blocks are placed upwards when continuing to build.
|163670|Zombie villagers don't drop armor or held items when converting to a regular villager.
|164064|Camel's dash sound continues playing.
|164801|Chiseled bookshelf slot interactions aren't symmetrical.
|166411|Blocks push the player when automatically initiated to sneaking.
|166566|Camels don't play their walking animations when they are damaged.
|166569|Player will sometimes automatically crouch when climbing ladders, vines, twisting vines, weeping vines under full block.
|166741|Sculk sensors do not detect item frame & glow item frame interactions.
|167447|Mouse and Keyboard buttons for Attack/Destroy and Interact/Place behave strangely when a controller is detected.
|168054|Block state autocomplete does not work unless you put a space between block name and first bracket.
|168056|Block state values don't autocomplete unless you type a space after the colon.
|168119|Remove an enchanted book from a chiseled bookshelf plays wrong sound.
|168129|Invalid objects in entitiy component <code>minecraft:behavior.nearest_attackable</code> crash the game.
|168368|{{cmd|inputpermission}} doesn't send you successful messages after executing it.
|169313|Freshly generated chunks cause boats and chestboats to disappear when riding in them.
|169772|Boats broken and all mobs exit boats when updated to 1.20 versions.
|169453|Entities continue to freeze even without powder snow if there is a powder snow block near the west & north side.
|169732|Conduit is black.
|169758|Villagers cannot pickup, plant or harvest torchflower seeds and pitcher pods.
|169693|Sniffers can still dig when using levitation status effect.
|169937|Decorated Pot combined with pottery sherds doesn't have additional information in the description.
|169974|{{cmd|execute positioned}} gets syntax error after 1.19.80 update.
|170031|Sniffers continue digging after their target block is destroyed.
|170208|30 second despawn immunity is broken again.
|170427|When water is put in the cauldron, the water looks like lava.
|170645|Game crashes when changing a mob's scale would make it collide with blocks.
|170610|Forced crouch interacts with entities as if the sneak button was being held.
|170613|Player is able to crouch while riding a camel.
|170814|P2P/SIG: no_session(Expired Auth from Discovery).
|170885|Crawl speed does not increase with swift sneak enchantment.
|171429|Pressure plates have become broken and inconsistent.
|171798|Mobs dismount from chest boats.
}}
'''Others'''
*Players will now always spawn projectiles from the camera position when sneaking, swimming, or gliding.
* Loyalty tridents will always return to the player's camera.
* Players will now spawn particle effects when eating in the correct position if they are sneaking, swimming, or gliding.
*Players will no longer suffocate when short sneaking in certain scenarios.
*Players without permission to open/close containers can no longer interact with chiseled bookshelves.
*Switch: Fixed issues with highlighted blocks and mob shadows appearing through the pumpkin head overlay.
*Shields no longer flicker when held in both hands on RTX.
*Fixed sleep and camera fade effect not covering the screen until after first-person rendering happens.
* Fixed black pixels being generated on maps when "Client-Side Chunk Generation" is enabled.
*Command positions will now use the current position/rotation when running mcfunctions via {{cd|execute}}.
*The paper doll will now show up properly when crawling.
*Suspicious blocks now display correctly on maps.
*Shield no longer clips inside the armor stand model while in the riposte pose.
*Sniffer can no longer dig up seeds in the air.
*Fixed a crash that could happen when running the <code>go_and_give_items_to_noteblock</code> goal.
*Custom items with <code>minecraft:block_placer</code> will no longer place certain blocks in the wrong location.
*Fixed {{cmd|camerashake}} command to shake camera without also shaking player.
*Reordered the gamepad tooltips for UI screens so that the buttons align with the same side as a controller.
*Fixed an issue where legacy crawling was not working correctly with the sneak and crawl toggle turned off.
*Fixed a bug where scoreboard values would not be updated on the client when updated from script.
*Fixed a crash.

==References==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.20.10]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.20.10]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 1.20.10]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.20.10]]
[[uk:1.20.10 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.10]]