{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.6022.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.6022.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.60.22
| image = Bedrock 1.20.60.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.60.22.png
| build = 20190167
| editorver = 0.4.11
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952006022（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962006022（x86，33）<br>
972006022（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982006022（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = December 6, 2023
| server = 1.20.60.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.60.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.60.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.60
| prevparent = 1.20.51
| prev = Preview 1.20.60.21
| next = Preview 1.20.60.23
| nextparent = 1.20.62
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.60.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.60.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.60]], released on December 6, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/21999492368781|title=Minecraft - Beta & ''Preview'' 1.20.60.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 6, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
===Technical===
'''[[API]]'''
*Made the display name parameter optional in Scoreboard {{cd|addObjective}}.
'''Components'''
*Added a "drop_item_slot" field to the "interact" component, which allows to specify an inventory slot to remove and drop items from
'''Stability and Performance'''
*Send "material" for vanilla data-driven blocks in the StartGamePacket blockProperties. "block_id" is also moved to the "vanilla_block_data" object

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Update 1.21" and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
===Changes===
====Blocks====
'''[[Copper Door]]'''
*Updated Copper Door textures, including oxidized variations.
*Copper Doors and Trapdoors have now correct breaking time and blast resistance.
====Mobs====
'''[[Breeze]]'''
*Breeze ground particles now stop playing when they're riding other entities.
*Separated the Breeze diffuse and emissive textures.
===Technical===
'''[[API]]'''
*Added method {{cd|eatItem(itemStack: ItemStack): void;}}.
*BlockSignComponent
**Changed signature of function {{cd|setWaxed}} to {{cd|setWaxed(waxed: boolean)}}
**Removed event/property {{cd|pistonActivate}}
*Added enum BlockPistonState export enum BlockPistonState { Expanded = "Expanded", Expanding = "Expanding", Retracted = "Retracted", Retracting = "Retracting" }
*Class BlockPistonComponent
**Removed property {{cd|isExpanded}}
**Removed property {{cd|isExpanding}}
**Removed property {{cd|isRetracted}}
**Removed property {{cd|isRetracting}}
**Added property {{cd|readonly state: BlockPistonState}}
**Changed function {{cd|getAttachedBlocks to return type Block[]}}
**Added function {{cd|getAttachedBlocksLocations(): Vector3[]}}
*Removed class {{cd|PistonActivateBeforeEvent}}
*Removed class {{cd|PistonActivateBeforeEventSignal}}
*Types
**Moved BlockType from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.8.0}}
**Moved FluidType from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.8.0}}
*Moved {{cd|NavigationResult}} from {{cd|@minecraft/server}} to {{cd|@minecraft/server-gametest}}
'''Graphical'''
*Adjusted the falloff of point light sources (e.g., torches, lanterns, etc...) to use a square, Manhattan-based distance metric in the Deferred Technical Preview.
*Tinted ambient light color with point light color for better multi-colored lighting over large distances in the Deferred Technical Preview

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.60.22 Preview
|;From released versions before 1.20.0
|167836|Cannot change {{cd|brightness_gamma}} setting in blocks.json
|170377|Buttons can be accidentally clicked, when clicking out of window and into the background of game
|otherissuescount=7}}
'''Others'''
* Containers being cloned over no longer keep their container screens open and no longer cause crashes.
* Fixed a rare crash that could occur with the “Seven Seas” achievement.
* Fixed a bug that kept the previewed item on the paper doll even after navigating back using the sidebar.
* All unowned and owned emotes should now be discoverable within the emotes section of Dressing Room.
* The Friends drawer on the Play screen now makes sounds when {{Sound|opened|Drawer open.wav}} and {{Sound|closed|Drawer close.wav}}.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when players placed or destroyed any block and then Save & Quit with Ray Tracing enabled.
*Fixed issue where ActionFormData buttons could not be clicked if there were more than 255 buttons in the form
</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.60 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.60.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.60.22]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.60.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.60.22]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.60.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.60.22]]