{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.210.51 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.210.51.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21051.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21051.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.51<br>
|build=5110369
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' December 9, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=beta 1.16.210.50
|next=beta 1.16.210.53
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.51''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on December 9, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360053524911|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.51 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 9, 2020}}</ref> which changes the [[goat]]s and [[powder snow]] behavior, and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Powder Snow]]'''
* Now shows the block breaking animation when being mined.
* No longer transparent when looked at through clouds.

=== Items ===
'''[[Shield]]s'''
* Now grants partial knockback protection from the goat ram attack.

'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Goat spawn egg texture has been updated.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Creeper]]s'''
* No longer attack back after being rammed by a goat.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "[[Caves & Cliffs]]"  experimental toggles.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Goat]]s'''
* Now drops 1–2 [[raw mutton]] upon death.
* Model has been updated to have correct rotation for its head. 
* Now only breed one baby at a time.
* No longer set ram attack position to unreachable block behind obstacle.
* Can now jump to several non-full blocks like slabs and stairs.
* No longer jump from honey.
* No longer jump onto [[magma block]]s.
* No longer attack [[armor stand]]s.
* Now only drop 2 [[goat horn|horn]]s each.
** The number of horns left to drop is represented on the model.
* No longer perform radically high jumps.
* No longer overshoot or undershoot their jumps.
* Now flip their knockback target slightly higher in the air.
* Can now go through non-solid blocks (like grass and flowers) when they ram.
* Now knock back the first target it intersects.
* Baby goats now knockback their target at a shorter distance.
* Baby goats don't jump as far as the adults.

== Fixes ==
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Pouring water on [[top snow]] no longer creates [[snowball]]s.
* Using [[bone meal]] in [[warm ocean]] biomes now only generates [[seagrass]], [[coral]], and [[coral fan]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-100085}})

'''General'''
* Updated outdated loading screen tips. ({{bug|MCPE-98977}}, {{bug|MCPE-102293}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Mining a [[crimson hyphae]] with [[Silk Touch]] now returns a placeable block.

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed a bug where [[parrot]]s could fly upwards indefinitely.
* [[Zombie villager]]s spawned from zombie spawners on Marketplace worlds that were created after version 1.11 now correctly spawn as V2 zombie villagers. When cured, they will now correctly turn into V2 villagers.
* [[Horse]]s, [[donkey]]s, [[mule]]s, [[skeleton horse]]s, and [[zombie horse]]s can now properly be given custom names, and identified using their respective <code>runtime_identifier</code>.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed an issue with maps rendering over transparent objects when attached to item frames in RTX worlds.
* Reduced ghosting of fish when viewed through the water with DLSS enabled.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.51]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.51]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.51]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.51]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.51 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.51]]