{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.0.53.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.53.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.53.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.0.53<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' March 26, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.16.0.52
|next=beta 1.16.0.54
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.0.53''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]], released on March 26, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360041459831|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.0.53 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 26, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==

'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur in split-screen when the host saves and quits the game.
* Fixed stability issues when using some custom character creator skins.

'''Performance'''
* Improved performance related to maps in item frames. ({{bug|REALMS-1532}})

'''General'''
* Dedicated server documentation fixes ({{bug|BDS-1084}}, {{bug|BDS-2341}}, {{bug|BDS-3141}}, {{bug|BDS-3051}}, {{bug|BDS-1085}})
* Fixed issue where imported world templates (.mctemplate) were not visible on Gear VR.
* Fixed an issue related to chunks not loading correctly in Realms. ({{bug|REALMS-2037}})
* Fixed skin texturing issue on "Alex" model.

'''Gameplay'''

* Fixed an issue with villager goals which prevented them from working.
* Add translation to other languages with vocabulary different with Java
* Newly-created maps now start with the correct zoom level. ({{bug|MCPE-63416}})
* Fixed an issue where maps from converted ‘Editions’ worlds were at the wrong scale. ({{bug|MCPE-58796}})
* Fixed shearing a sheep not updating its texture to sheared sheep model. ({{bug|MCPE-63188}})
* Fixed an issue with some enchantments not working correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-63124}})
* Fixed an issue with music disc names not showing in the correct language.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed rendering issues for sign text through other transparent objects such as glass. ({{bug|MCPE-55327}})
* Fixed maps in item frames flashing purple and black image before the map loads.
* Animation scale now uses linear interpolation between keyframes.

'''Add-ons and scripting'''
* Switching to a different geometry using a render controller now immediately change the geometry in-game.
* Fixes for selectors with an empty tag as argument @e[tag=] and @e[tag=!].</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.53]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.53]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.0.53]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.53]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.0.53]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.0.53 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.0.53]]