{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.40.21 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.40.21.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.4021.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.4021.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.40.21
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - September 14, 2022
| parent = 1.19.40
| prevparent = 1.19.31
| prev = Preview 1.19.40.20
| next = Preview 1.19.40.22
| nextparent = 1.19.41
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.40.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.40.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.40]], released on September 14, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/9159676401933|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.40.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 14, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|summon}}'''
* Added new overload to the {{cmd|summon}} command that adds rotation arguments.
** New overload is {{cmd|summon [spawnPos: x y z] [yRot: float] [xRot: float] [spawnEvent: string] [nametag: string]}}.
** Previous overload {{cmd|summon [spawnPos: x y z] [spawnEvent: string] [nametag: string]}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features" and "GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''Commands'''
* Implemented the {{cmd|execute facing}} and {{cmd|execute facing entity}} commands.
* Implemented the {{cmd|execute align}} command.

'''Data Driven Blocks'''
* "minecraft:direction" is no longer exposed as a data-driven blockProperty. Blocks throw a content error when the "minecraft" namespace is used.

'''GameTest Framework'''
* Removed built-in GameTest Behavior Packs.

'''General'''
* Added flag is_hidden_in_commands in menu_category to control whether or not a block can be used in commands.

== Fixes ==
'''Spectator Mode (Experimental)'''
* Water fog is no longer removed for players in Spectator Mode ({{bug|MCPE-161105}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed fall damage accumulating while the player is in a Trapdoor block at the top of a bubble column ({{bug|MCPE-158858}})

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed a bug where mobs with a long hit range could hit players through walls ({{bug|MCPE-55790}})

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug in Pocket UI where items could be dropped in the dark-grey areas around the item grid in the Crafting Table screen
* Fixed a bug in Pocket UI where items could be dropped in the dark-grey areas around the item grid in the inventories for the Horse, Mule, Donkey, and Llama
* Fixed a bug where the death screen message was visible when the showdeathmessage gamerule was set to false

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Sweet Berries can now be planted on Farmland ({{bug|MCPE-99632}})
* Changed bubble column strength to match Java Edition ({{bug|MCPE-158858}})

'''Blocks'''
* Dirt Path and Farmland block collisions are now one texel lower ({{bug|MCPE-12109}})
* Players now sink in Soul Sand and Mud blocks ({{bug|MCPE-154973}})
* Players swimming above Mud will not have their screen covered ({{bug|MCPE-153737}})
* Projectiles landing on Mud will not repeatedly shake ({{bug|MCPE-153744}})
* Amphibious mobs no longer have trouble pathfinding around Mud Blocks ({{bug|MCPE-153961}})

'''Mobs'''
* Ravager now can be hurt by Evoker Fangs
* Increased Ravager collision box size to match Java Edition ({{bug|MCPE-142171}}, {{bug|MCPE-45531}})
* Increased Ravager speed to match Java ({{bug|MCPE-48145}})

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using the hasItem selector and specifying a negative value for the item's data ({{bug|MCPE-152314}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.40 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.21]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.40.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.40.21]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.40.21]]