{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.8.0.10.png
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 18, 2018
|parent=1.8.0
|prevparent=1.7.1
|prev=beta 1.8.0.8
|next=beta 1.8.0.11
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.8.0.10''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0]], released on October 18, 2018,<ref>{{link|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360018040232-Minecraft-Beta-1-8-0-10-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.8.0.10 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback}}</ref> which adds [[crossbow]]s and new [[dye]] items.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Scaffolding]]'''
* Added [[sound]]s.

=== Items ===
'''[[Crossbow]]'''
* Stronger than [[bow]]s, but slower to reload.
* Can be enchanted with new [[enchantment]]s:
** [[Multishot]]
*** Fires three [[arrow]]s at once in different directions.
** [[Quick Charge]]
*** Increases the reload speed.
** [[Piercing]]
*** Projectiles pierce through enemies.
** Can shoot [[firework rocket]]s by holding the crossbow in one hand and the fireworks in the other.
* Only available through [[Experimental gameplay]].

'''[[Dye]]s:'''
* Added [[black dye|black]], [[blue dye|blue]], [[brown dye|brown]], and [[white dye]]s.
* [[Item]]s previously used as dyes ([[bone meal]], [[cocoa beans]], [[ink sac]]s, and [[lapis lazuli]]) can still be used.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Panda]]s'''
* Added additional sounds.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Packed ice]]'''
* Can now be crafted with nine [[ice]].

'''[[Scaffolding]]'''
* Scaffolding now burns in [[lava]].
* The [[player]] can now sneak by pressing {{control|sneaking}} when there's no other scaffolding [[block]] below.

=== Items ===
'''[[Bow]]s'''
* The bow in the hotbar now shows an [[arrow]] when being drawn.

'''[[Firework rocket]]s'''
* Can now be placed in the offhand slot.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Panda]]s'''
* Can now be fed by hand.
* Now sit and snack when the [[player]] gives them [[bamboo]], even if they're angry or scared.
* Increased damage dealt by aggressive pandas.
* Now drop the extra bamboo they have in their [[inventory]].

=== General ===
'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Content can now be sorted by "Updates Available" in the Marketplace inventory.
* Content can now be sorted and filtered by rating.

'''[[How to Play]]'''
* Information on scaffolding can now be found in the "How to Play" menu.

'''[[World Spawn|Spawning]]'''
* Improvements to how and when spawn positions are moved to safe locations.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when using the spawn eggs of several mobs on a monster spawner.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when opening the beacon screen.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading a world or opening in-game menus in some languages.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when hovering over a renamed firework charge ({{bug|MCPE-37822}}).
* Fixed an error that occurred when attempting to start a split-screen session with a guest on Xbox One.
* Fixed an issue that caused scaffolding to flicker.
* Players can no longer fall through suspended scaffold blocks when holding crouch.
* Baby pandas now have idle sounds.
* When the player has just moved out of a block space, they can no longer place a repeater or comparator that can't be powered. ({{bug|MCPE-36762}})
* Fixed enchanted tridents being lost from anvils following a server disconnect. ({{bug|MCPE-37526}})
* Fixed an exploit that allowed tridents to be duplicated. ({{bug|MCPE-37900}})
* Health boost and absorption effects no longer have the same icon.
* Fixed the animation of jumping while riding a horse in first person perspective.
* Fixed leaf blocks dropping leaves instead of saplings when broken without shears.
* Fixed the "Multiplayer Game" toggle appearing disabled when it is actually enabled.
* Relative coordinates in commands are once again consistent below 3 on the y-axis. ({{bug|MCPE-35130}})
* Using {{key|Shift+Tab}} to reverse cycle through slash command auto-complete suggestions now properly cycles to the end of the list.
* Running the 'title' and 'subtitle' commands will once again override any titles and subtitles currently on screen.
* Add-ons: {{code|minecraft:navigation.walk}} can now be used in component groups without causing the game to crash.</onlyinclude> 

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.10]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.10]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.8.0.10]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.10]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.8.0.10]]
[[ru:Beta 1.8.0.10 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.8.0.10]]