{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.8.0
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date =
;Preview: November 7, 2024
;Stable: December 3, 2024
| client = 
;Preview: [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.50.28|Preview 1.21.50.28]]
;Stable: [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50|1.21.50]]
| prevparent = 0.7.0
| prev = 0.7.7
| next = 0.8.1
| nextparent = 0.9.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.8.0''', also known as the '''Sculpting Update''', is the first beta release<ref>{{Cite Discord
 | url = https://discord.com/channels/523663022053392405/1084090299120373760/1306683644227616788
 | title = Hey all, I have some exciting news to share! I wanted to let you know that Editor v0.8 will be coming out of Preview and will be part of the 1.21.50 Stable release to retail! 🎉🎉🎉 
 | channel = editor-mode
 | server = Bedrock Add-Ons
 | invite = https://discord.gg/zpTv3qur3V
 | user = bryhaw
 | date = January 1, 2024
 | ss = Bryhaw Bedrock Editor beta release.png
}}</ref> for the Bedrock Editor released on November 7, 2024, which includes new tools and support for custom blocks.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/206</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31693342053517|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.50.28|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 7, 2024}}</ref>
It was released to [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50|stable 1.21.50]] on December 3, 2024.

== Additions ==
;Tools
*Added a new flatten brush: drag this brush over a block to turn blocks above it into air. This brush has a customizable height and radius.
*Added a fill tool to allow creators to quickly change block groups.
*Added a smooth tool to easily smooth terrain.
*Added a quick extrude tool to allow creators to extrude block groups.
*Added a repeater tool to repeat a selection volume along X, Y, and Z.
*Added a farm tool to quickly drop in farms into a world.
*Added a 2D directional XZ compass to game viewport to aid with building.
**Added the ability to click on the compass to snap to closest cardinal direction.
*Added a configurable fly speed multiplier.
**Added speed settings
**New slider in View->View Settings to configure fly speed multiplier between 1 and 10
**Fly speed multiplier only takes effect while in Tool/Editor mode

;Other
*Added friendly names in the Block Picker
*Added quick action for Selection::Delete
*Added new axis and plane restriction options in the Widget Gizmo Component creation options. Creators can restrict which axes of movement are afforded by their gizmos
*Added Block Filter Disabled state
*Added {{keys|M}} key to toggle between mask mode and disabled
*Added {{keys|R}} key to toggle between replace mode and disabled
*Added support for persistence in hotbar block palettes
*Added context menu to the options button next to hotbar for creating and managing new palettes.
*Added a new {{cd|session.extensionContext.blockUtilities}} object which will present a number of high-performance common block operations. First function added is a {{cd|fillVolume}} function to perform large scale fill operation which honors Editors different block palette types

== Changes ==
*Updated default filters with air (when not loaded previous state).
*Updated the icon for Selection::Deselect.
*Updated block IDs in the UI to use localized names.
*Updated checkbox labels to be clickable.
*Updated property pane information tooltip icon to be more visible.
*Updated the View->Log Panel menu item to now expand the panel drawer.

== Fixes ==
*Fixed a bug that caused dropdowns to be truncated at the window edges.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.8.0]]
[[ru:0.8.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.8.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]