{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.1022.0<br>'''ChromeOS, Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.10.22
| image = Bedrock 1.21.10.22.png
| build = 25221682
| editorver = 0.6.6
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952101022 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962101022 (x86, 34)<br />
972101022 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982101022 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = June 5, 2024
| server = 1.21.10.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.10.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.10.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.20
| prevparent = 1.21.3
| prev = Preview 1.21.10.21
| next = Preview 1.21.10.23
| nextparent = 1.21.21
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.10.22''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.10.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20]]{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.21.10 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20|1.21.20]].<ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/27935763028237-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-20-21</ref>}}, released on June 5, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/27211188359949|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.10.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=June 5, 2024}}</ref> which makes breaking changes to multiple aspects of the [[add-on]] system and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Game Tips]]'''
* Added emote game tip. The tip appears when there are remote players close to the player and the player has spent at least 30 seconds with other players in the world.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Door]]s'''
* Doors of different materials will now be able to form a double door.

'''[[Double Slab]]s'''
* The different stone slab type [[block states]] for the <code>double_stone_block_slab2</code>, <code>double_stone_block_slab3</code>, and <code>double_stone_block_slab4</code> IDs have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="8" | {{BlockSprite|red-sandstone}} <code>double_stone_block_slab2</code>
| {{BlockSprite|red-sandstone}} <code>red_sandstone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|purpur-block}} <code>purpur_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|prismarine}} <code>prismarine_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dark-prismarine}} <code>dark_prismarine_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|prismarine-bricks}} <code>prismarine_brick_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|mossy-cobblestone}} <code>mossy_cobblestone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-sandstone}} <code>smooth_sandstone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|red-nether-bricks}} <code>red_nether_brick_double_slab</code>
|-
| rowspan="8" | {{BlockSprite|end-stone-bricks}} <code>double_stone_block_slab3</code>
| {{BlockSprite|end-stone-bricks}} <code>end_stone_brick_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-red-sandstone}} <code>smooth_red_sandstone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-andesite}} <code>polished_andesite_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|andesite}} <code>andesite_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|diorite}} <code>diorite_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-diorite}} <code>polished_diorite_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|granite}} <code>granite_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|polished-granite}} <code>polished_granite_double_slab</code>
|-
| rowspan="5" | {{BlockSprite|mossy-stone-bricks}} <code>double_stone_block_slab4</code>
| {{BlockSprite|mossy-stone-bricks}} <code>mossy_stone_brick_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-quartz-block}} <code>smooth_quartz_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stone}} <code>normal_stone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cut-sandstone}} <code>cut_sandstone_double_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cut-red-sandstone}} <code>cut_red_sandstone_double_slab</code>
|}

'''[[Prismarine]], [[Dark Prismarine]], and [[Prismarine Bricks]]'''
* The different [[block states]] for the <code>prismarine</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="3" | {{BlockSprite|all-prismarine}} <code>prismarine</code>
| {{BlockSprite|prismarine}} <code>prismarine</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dark-prismarine}} <code>dark_prismarine</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|prismarine-bricks}} <code>prismarine_bricks</code>
|}

'''[[Prismarine Slab|Prismarine Double Slab]], [[Dark Prismarine Slab|Dark Prismarine Double Slab]], [[Prismarine Bricks Slab|Prismarine Bricks Double Slab]], [[Andesite Slab|Andesite Double Slab]], [[Polished Andesite Slab|Polished Andesite Double Slab]], [[Diorite Slab|Diorite Double Slab]], [[Polished Diorite Slab|Polished Diorite Double Slab]], [[Granite Slab|Granite Double Slab]], [[Polished Granite Slab|Polished Granite Double Slab]], and [[Mossy Stone Brick Slab|Mossy Stone Brick Double Slab]] '''
* They now have a hardness of 1.5.

'''[[End Stone Brick Slab|End Stone Brick Double Slab]] '''
* It now has a hardness of 3.

'''[[Vault]]'''
* Added sound effect to help players understand that they have already looted this vault.

=== Entities ===
'''[[Drowned]]'''
* Now spawn individually in rivers instead of in groups of two, like in {{JE}}.
* Now spawn in aquifers in dripstone caves, like in {{JE}}.

'''[[Wind Charge]]'''
* The model now correctly renders within its bounding box.
* No longer burst when removed by commands.

=== Items ===
'''[[Banner Pattern]]s'''
* "Thing" is now considered of Epic [[Rarity#Tiers|rarity]] (magenta color).
* "Flow" and "Guster" are now considered of Rare [[Rarity#Tiers|rarity]] (aqua color).
* "Creeper Charge", "Skull Charge", and "Snout" are now considered of Uncommon [[Rarity#Tiers|rarity]] (yellow color).

'''[[Heavy Core]], [[Mace]], and [[Trident]]'''
* Are now considered of Epic [[Rarity#Tiers|rarity]] (magenta color).

'''[[Wind Charge]]'''
* Increased player-fired wind charge speed by 50%, bringing it into parity with {{JE}}.

=== General ===
'''Touch controls'''
* Buttons can now slide completely to the right when customizing controls on iOS and iPadOS.
* When customizing touch controls, the safe zones on the left and right side are now ignored.

'''Gameplay'''
* Tweaked the way the dismount position is calculated to better align with moving vehicles. This could result in minor differences when dismounting fast vehicles.

'''Realms'''
* Added a new reporting flow that lets players add more context and information about why the report is being made.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Released {{cd|WorldInitializeBeforeEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|WorldInitializeBeforeEventSignal}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentRegistry}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemCustomComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentBeforeDurabilityDamageEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentCompleteUseEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentConsumeEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentHitEntityEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentMineBlockEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentUseEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Released {{cd|ItemComponentUseOnEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
* Moved {{cd|EntityTameableComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}} with properties {{cd|getTameItems}}, {{cd|isTamed}}, {{cd|probability}}, {{cd|tamedToPlayer}}, {{cd|tamedToPlayerId}} and function {{cd|tame}}.
* Moved {{cd|EntityAgeableComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}} with properties {{cd|duration}}, {{cd|growUp}}, {{cd|transformToItem}} and function {{cd|getDropItems}}, {{cd|getFeedItems}}, {{cd|EntityDefinitionFeedItem}}, {{cd|Trigger}}.
* Enabled the {{cd|server-net}} module to be usable in local editor extensions.

'''[[Commands/camera|Camera]]s'''
* Added the view offset to the 3rd person camera for the experimental {{cd|follow_orbit}} preset
** The view offset is anchored to a pivot point at the center of the screen. When applied to the {{cd|follow_orbit}} preset, the player is shifted to be at a distance from center specified by the offset.
** The range for this offset is -100 to 100
** This can be set by both commands and JSON
*** {{cmd|/camera @s set minecraft:follow_orbit view_offset viewX viewY}}
* Added starting radius and rotation to the {{cd|follow_orbit}} and 3rd person boom camera presets
** The starting radius (distance from player) is fixed right now at 10 blocks from the player position.
** The starting rotation (pitch and yaw) are fixed right now at 45x and 45y.
* Exposed radius component to behavior packs to be overwritten by creator cameras. Also added {{cd|minecraft:third_person}} and {{cd|minecraft:third_person_front}} to the allow list of presets that can be inherited from
** This allows the making of a 3rd person camera based on the vanilla 3rd person cameras but with a variable radius.
** The radius (distance from player) is not limited but render distance and other constraints still exist.
** This does not allow modifications to the vanilla cameras.

'''[[Entities]]'''
* Added a {{cd|wind_burst_on_hit}} subcomponent for projectiles which creates a wind burst upon collision with an entity or block before being removed from the world.

'''[[Feature]]s'''
* {{cd|minecraft:scatter_feature}} now has a {{cd|distribution}} field like {{cd|minecraft:feature_rules}} to define the scattering settings. Features now use schema version {{cd|1.21.10}}.

'''[[Item]]'''
* Released {{cd|minecraft:custom_components}} item component out of experimental in json formats {{cd|1.21.10}} and higher.
* Introduced {{cd|slot.armor.body}} as an extra armor slot for entities, like horses, limited to a single armor item but needing the effects of a full armor set.
* Introduced the {{cd|minecraft:damage_absorption}} item component, enabling items to absorb damage intended for their wearer.
** The {{cd|absorbable_causes}} field allows to specify which damage causes to absorb.
** Absorbed damage depletes the item’s durability, and surplus damage is ignored.
** Requires equipping the item in an armor slot for damage to be absorbed.
** When multiple damage absorbing items are equipped, a suitable one is selected at random to absorb incoming damage.
* Introduced the {{cd|minecraft:durability_sensor}} item component, enabling items to emit sounds and particles when damage causes them to lose durability.
** The {{cd|durability_thresholds}} field allows to define a list of both durability thresholds and the effects to emit when they are met.
** When the item receives enough damage to meet multiple thresholds at the same time, only the one corresponding to the lowest durability is considered.

== Experimental ==
=== Additions ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Added {{cd|playerEmote}} which fires after a player uses an emote.

'''Graphical'''
* Added a Brightness / Gamma calibration screen for Deferred Technical Preview.
** The calibration screen can be found under Deferred Graphics Settings within the Video settings menu.

=== Changes ===
'''Upcoming Creator Features'''
* Deprecated entity permutations.
** Permutations can no longer be parsed and applied to entities via their JSON file under the flag permutations.
* Deprecated Volume and {{cmd|/volumearea}} command.
* Entity aliases is deprecated when a {{cd|format_version}} of {{cd|1.21.10}} or higher is specified.

'''[[API]]'''
* Use of the {{cd|onTick}} event requires the block has the {{cd|minecraft:tick}} component to configure how the block ticks
* Blocks that are world generated, and have the {{cd|minecraft:tick}} component, will now tick.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.10.22 Preview
|;old
|42310|Players can spawn in and take damage or die before the world loads correctly.
|144066|Drowned doesn't spawn inside aquifers in the dripstone caves.
|179656|Heavy core's inventory icon is too small.
|180810|Crawl mode activated when sneak and jump onto bed.
|181155|Heavy Core "floats" relative to Item Frame.
|181211|Breeze wind charges can change activation blockstates of redstone components when {{cd|mobGriefing}} gamerule is disabled.
|182277|Heavy cores, maces and tridents has different rarity name color from Java.
|otherissuescount=8}}
'''Other'''
* Fixed a bug where items from certain Add-ons could appear without textures or names when joining Realms.
* Fixed a bug that caused Crafter to be audible from more than five blocks away.
* Fixed Ancient City entrance using a single Deepslate tile slab instead of a double slab.
* Fixed a bug where a user could not create a new realm via the “Free Beta/Preview Realm Available” button in the Worlds tab due to an infinite loading screen and non-functioning “Create Preview/Beta Realm” button.
* Fixed an issue on Fire tablets where game would occasionally crash when joining a world.
* Fixed a bug where the wrong text could be shown on the death screen while using Hardcore mode in split screen.
* Fixed a bug that prevented two back-to-back error screens when the client was out of date and a Realm had a pending update.
* Fixed a crash when enabling the Deferred Technical Preview experiment on Android devices with an Arm Mali GPU.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{fnlist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}
[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.20 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.10.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.10.22]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.10.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.10.22]]