{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.50.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.50.23.png
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.5023.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.5023.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.50.23
| build = 19381256
| editorver = 0.4.8
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952005023（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962005023（x86，33）<br>
972005023（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982005023（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = November 2, 2023
| server = 1.20.50.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.50.23.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.50.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.50
| prevparent = 1.20.41
| prev = Preview 1.20.50.22
| next = Preview 1.20.50.24
| nextparent = 1.20.51
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.50.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.50.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.50]], released on November 2, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/20951835532429-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-50-23|title=Minecraft - Beta & ''Preview'' 1.20.50.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 2, 2023}}</ref> which brings more parity with {{JE}} and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Added the ability to deep link users within a [[server]] to [[Character Creator|dressing room]] offers.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Create New World]] and [[Main Menu]]'''
* Added an altered main menu and world creation experience.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Update 1.21" and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Copper Door]] and [[Copper Trapdoor]]'''
* Updated their block and item textures for all variants.

'''[[Crafter]]'''
* Its texture has been updated.

'''[[Tuff Bricks]], [[Tuff Brick Slab]], [[Tuff Brick Stairs]], and [[Tuff Brick Wall]]'''
* Updated their block and item textures.

==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Moved <code>Entity.remove</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.7.0</code>.
* <code>DataDrivenEntityTriggerAfterEvent</code>
** Renamed property <code>id</code> to <code>eventId</code> for clarity.
** Changed <code>getModifier</code> to work in read-only mode.
* Changed <code>DefinitionModifier</code> from a <code>class</code> to an <code>interface</code> with properties.
* Made <code>EntityTypes.get</code> properly reflect that it can return <code>EntityType | undefined</code> instead of just <code>EntityType</code>.
* Dynamic Properties
** [[NBT]] change: Dynamic properties are now stored using the behavior pack manifest UUID, rather than the module UUID. Existing worlds using dynamic properties will continue to work, and will be migrated to the new format when properties are read or modified.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* Deprecated <code>on_dig</code> event triggers from <code>minecraft:digger</code> in format versions <code>1.20.50</code> and higher.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.50.23 Preview
|;From released versions before 1.20.0
|31014|100% hotbar opacity isn't opaque enough.
|41898|Exporting MCWORLD or MCSTRUCTURE file to a OneDrive folder fails silently.
|168598|Some in-game UIs have no transparent black background in Pocket UI.
|169617|Creator icon hover border is missing.
|;old
|167218|Unable to crouch underwater/in water.
|175159|Recipes menu defaults to "All" items.
|176184|Firework rockets can't be used to break chorus flowers.
|176198|Updating to 1.20.50.21 ejects all mobs too large for boats, even if they were put there prior to the update.
|176371|Calcite can no longer be obtained by creative inventory or {{cmd|give}} command.
|otherissuescount=5}}
'''Others'''
* Added the missing crafting recipes for chiseled copper (all variants), tuff blocks, copper doors, trapdoors, and grates (all waxed variants).
* Fixed possible soft locking when performing different actions within Marketplace.
* Fixed a regression that caused flying players to slow down significantly after touching ground.
* The classic skins info pop now sends you to the correct settings page.
* Fixed a crash when joining a Realm after doing other things for a while.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.50.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.50.23]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.50.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.50.23]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.50.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.50.23]]