{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.9.0.2.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' November 28, 2018
|parent=1.9.0
|prevparent=1.8.1
|prev=beta 1.9.0.0
|next=beta 1.9.0.3
|nextparent=1.10.0
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.9.0.2''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]], released on November 28, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360020324051-Minecraft-Beta-1-9-0-2-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.9.0.2 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=November 28, 2018}}</ref> which adds 9 new [[block]]s.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]], [[bell]], [[blast furnace]], [[cartography table]], [[fletching table]], [[grindstone]], [[smithing table]], and [[smoker]]'''
* Currently have no functionality.
* Only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Lantern]]s'''
* Act as a new light source.
* Emit a light level of 15.
* Can only be obtained in the [[Creative]] inventory with [[Experimental Gameplay]] enabled.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Function (Bedrock Edition)|Function]]s'''
* Can now be run every tick creating an update loop.

'''[[Gamerule]]s'''
* The number of commands run through functions can now be limited with a new gamerule (defaults to 10,000) to limit performance issues.

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Custom tags can be applied to entities and players to create more flexible selector groupings.
* Added {{cd|has_tag}} filter in components to allow checks to see if an entity has a specified tag.
* Autocomplete can be used for tags.

=== General ===
'''[[Pause menu]]'''
* Added a new "feedback" button.
** Shows links to the Minecraft [[feedback site]], Mojira [[bug tracker]], and Mojang support.
* "How to Play" button is now visible from the in-game settings menu.

'''Other'''
* Added unused textures for "fish barrel" blocks.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Cauldron]]s'''
* Can now be used to hold [[lava]].

'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Changed the default sign text color back to black.
* Sign variants are now grouped in their own inventory category.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Pillager]]s'''
* Now have the [[crossbow]] animations and sounds.

'''[[Passive mob]]s'''
* Now randomly enter [[love mode]].

=== General ===
'''[[Multiplayer]]'''
* Players can now join and play games with a minor version mismatch. ({{bug|MCPE-38945}})

== Fixes ==
* Shulker boxes in item frames no longer cause the game to crash. 
* Fixed an issue with wrong items showing in partnered server stores. 
* Corrected the head size of baby zombies. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when pistons pushed blocks.
* Fixed a crash that could happen when suspending and resuming the game.
* Improved the error messages that previously stated the player didn't have a license for the game. 
* Fixed the positioning of the snow golem's arms. 
* Pandas now stop eating when set on fire. 
* Fixed a crash that occurred when resuming the game on Android. 
* Fixed mouse selection issues when clicking items or text boxes. ({{bug|MCPE-39283}})
* Fixed an issue with end gateway portals which could generate too closely, preventing travel back to the main island.
* Slimes will once again spawn in slime chunks as expected. ({{bug|MCPE-38388}})
* Endermen now make the scream sound when angered. ({{bug|MCPE-26719}})
* Phantoms now drop membranes correctly if killed with a Fire Aspect sword. ({{bug|MCPE-38493}})
* Auto-jump now works when trying to walk through scaffolding. ({{bug|MCPE-38342}})
* Scaffolding can now be placed on glass. 
* More blocks can be placed on scaffolding including mob heads and flower pots. ({{bug|MCPE-38942}})
* Horizontal flowing water will no longer turn into bubble columns over soul sand. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when removing Gear VR headset during gameplay. 
* Fixed a crash that occasionally happens when resuming the game.
* Fixed leg geometry for one-legged characters in various skin packs.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when quickly signing in and out of Xbox Live. 
* Dragon's breath can now be quickly collected reliably in multiplayer games. ({{bug|MCPE-37815}})
* Pandas now panic when set on fire. 
* Animations and sounds can now be heard and seen when pillagers charge their crossbows. ({{bug|MCPE-39095}})
* Cobblestone stairs are generated in jungle temples and villages instead of stone. ({{bug|MCPE-39102}})
* Lit furnaces now show correctly when copied using {{key|Ctrl}} + Pickblock. 
* Custom modal forms now support two lines again. ({{bug|MCPE-38705}})
* Special characters now display correctly when using the "{{cmd|say}}" command.
* Touch controls now work correctly with scaffolding when using the 'swap jump and sneak' setting. ({{bug|MCPE-38063}})
* Particles produced by witches are now purple rather than black. ({{bug|MCPE-30234}})
* Slabs are no longer labeled "half slabs" in the creative inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-32542}})
* Scaffolding textures no longer z-fight with leaves. ({{bug|MCPE-38375}})
* Mobs in boats no longer shake when trying to turn to look at the player. 
* Bubble columns no longer extend up above the surface of the water. ({{bug|MCPE-39085}})
* Fixed an issue with items being repeatedly dropped from the hotbar on touchscreen devices. ({{bug|MCPE-15010}})
* Breaking smooth stone no longer drops cobblestone. ({{bug|MCPE-39164}})
* Doors no longer drop as two items when broken. ({{bug|MCPE-39165}})
* Fixed the scaling of the Mojang splash screen when resuming a split screen game. 
* Fixed ghast projectile firing animation.
* Commands from command blocks no longer extend to other dimensions (This fix won't affect existing command blocks). ({{bug|MCPE-33892}})
* Fixed a bug where the game could become unresponsive after being disconnected from a multiplayer game.
* Fixed a crash issue on Xbox One.
* Worlds no longer become stuck in offline mode after toggling the multiplayer option. ({{bug|MCPE-39194}})
* Slabs can be correctly placed on top of each other again after reloading the world. ({{bug|MCPE-39067}})
* Changing game mode and reloading a world no longer removes resource packs.
* Fixed the arm position for mobs in the Mutant Battle Arena marketplace pack.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.2]]
[[el:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.2]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.2]]
[[fr:Version Bedrock bêta 1.9.0.2]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.2]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.9.0.2]]
[[ru:Beta 1.9.0.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.9.0.2]]