{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.40.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.40.22.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.4022.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.4022.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.40.22
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - September 21, 2022
| parent = 1.19.40
| prevparent = 1.19.31
| prev = Preview 1.19.40.21
| next = Preview 1.19.40.23
| nextparent = 1.19.41
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.40.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.40.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.40]], released on September 21, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/9329824511629|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.40.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 21, 2022}}</ref> which added support for item tags in recipes, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Tags]]'''
* Added tag to support recipes instead of item names.
* Added new item tags for recipes:
** {{cd|minecraft:coals}}, {{cd|minecraft:logs}}, {{cd|minecraft:logs_that_burn}}, {{cd|minecraft:planks}}, {{cd|minecraft:soul_fire_base_blocks}}, {{cd|minecraft:stone_crafting_materials}}, {{cd|minecraft:stone_tool_materials}}, {{cd|minecraft:wooden_slabs}}, {{cd|minecraft:wool}}.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Scaffolding]]'''
* When used as fuel for [[furnace]]s, they now burn equally as long as a [[bamboo]] does.

=== General ===
'''[[Crafting]]'''
* Recipes can now refer to a tag instead of an item.

== Experimental ==
Some of this additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features" and "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Additions ===
==== General ====
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added "Max Framerate" option to the 'Video settings' section.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''Add-Ons and Script Engine'''
* Implemented the <code>has_property</code>, <code>int_property</code>, <code>bool_property</code>, <code>float_property</code>, and <code>enum_property</code> actor behavior filters.

'''API'''
* Updated the API.
** Events
*** Removed event tick- called each tick.
** System
*** Added run() - to queue a callback to run next tick, re-queue each tick to get behavior similar to tick event.
** Block
*** Renamed property id to typeId.
** BlockComponent
*** Renamed property id to typeId.
** Entity
*** Renamed property id to typeId.
*** Added read-only property id:string - Returns a unique identifier for the entity. This identifier remains consistent across world loads.
** EntityComponent
*** Renamed property id to typeId.
** ItemComponent
*** Renamed property id to typeId.
** ItemStack
*** Renamed property id to typeId.

'''GameTest Framework'''
* Fixed a bug where EntityHurtEvent would not fire on Player death.
* Renamed experiment "GameTest Framework" to "Beta APIs".
* The now-renamed "Beta APIs" experiment is still needed to access all beta APIs, including core Minecraft APIs and GameTest APIs.

== Fixes ==
'''Spectator Mode (Experimental)'''
* Spectator players no longer play sounds when entering/exiting bubble columns. ({{bug|MCPE-161536}})

'''Blocks'''
* Scaffolds now burn at a more correct rate, 1/4 of an item. ({{bug|MCPE-42949}})
* Breaking the block below a Snow-covered Flower now makes the Flower drop instead of the Snow Layer. ({{bug|MCPE-61609}})

'''Commands'''
* Copying a bubble column with the {{cmd|clone}} command no longer results in invisible water. ({{bug|MCPE-153903}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Reverted the change that caused Arrows and Tridents to stop moving. ({{bug|MCPE-162085}})
* Fixed an issue where Wither effect damage would be reduced by armor. ({{bug|MCPE-159407}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed Beacon block suddenly disappearing when seen from a distance.

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed an issue where Drowned could change held items when attacking. ({{bug|MCPE-40288}})

'''Touch Controls'''
* Improved the images for the three control schemes in the touch settings menu.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed an issue where players couldn't drag/drop or select items from the equipment page.
* Changed the color of the text descriptions for the 'Darkness Effect Strength' and 'Notification Duration' accessibility options to a lighter shade to make them more readable. ({{bug|MCPE-162047}})
* Fixed an issue where users couldn't swap unstackable items with touch controls.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.40 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.22]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.40.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.40.22]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.40.22]]