{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.9.9
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = May 13, 2025
| client = 1.21.90.25
| prevparent = 0.9.0
| prev = 0.9.8
| next = 0.9.9.9
| nextparent = 1.0.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.9.9''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on May 13, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/239|title=Release 0.9.9 (1.21.90.25)|website=GitHub|date=May 13, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36568454460173-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-25|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.25|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 13, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added various tooltips to the Editor menu items.
* Added {{cd|IPropertyPane.addProxyPane}} API function to display an existing sub pane within another pane.
* Added Numeric & Color Timeline graphs to Vibrant Visuals settings.
* Added support for localized help and tool tips into the schema.

== Changes ==
* Updated Editor to no longer default projects to vibrant visuals graphics mode. It can be toggled on from Deferred Rendering settings.
* Updated Paste Preview keyboard shortcuts:
** Past Preview is now initiated using {{key|Ctrl+V}} global key sequence.
** {{key|Ctrl+V}} in paste preview mode places the current previewed clipboard selection into the world.
** {{key|Shift+Ctrl+V}} will immediately paste the clipboard selection into the world, previously global {{key|Ctrl+V}} key sequence.
* Removed the Marquee Selection info panel when in freehand/magic select mode.
* Removed Point Lights in Vibrant Visuals settings when Deferred Technical Preview is disabled.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug where Flatten Brush, Brush Painter, Smooth Roughen and Selection Mode Freehand tools threw an assert when a painting action was in progress.
* Fixed a bug where the Tutorial Movement stage didn't wait for pan and look actions to complete.
* Fixed a bug that caused brush paint to not end when the Tutorial stage changes.
* Fixed a bug that caused Contiguous Selection Settings in Extrude tool pane to not show.
* Fixed a bug where the clipboard origin incorrectly showed fractional origin values when clipboard item had an even size.
* Fixed a bug with structure data validation so that it doesn't try to test all the sibling rules against the property it's looking for (this was resulting in lots of reported errors in the water properties, but they weren't actually errors).

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.9.9]]
[[ru:0.9.9 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.9.9 (Bedrock Editor)]]