{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.6.8
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = July 10, 2024
| client = 1.21.20.22
| prevparent = 0.6.0
| prev = 0.6.7
| next = 0.6.9
| nextparent = 0.7.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.6.8''' is a minor alpha release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on July 10, 2024, which adds a few quality-of-life improvements to the Deferred Lighting panel and adds sliders.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/184</ref><ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/28289283945869-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-20-22#h_01J2EGQQKT4D96RT3HB7X37TR1</ref>

== Additions ==
'''Entity transactions''
* Implemented single entity transaction payload for entity delete/create.
* Implemented Undo/Redo of single entity creation and deletion.

'''Deferred Lighting editor'''
* Added Global Illumination settings to the Deferred Lighting property editor.
* Added localized field names into the Deferred Lighting property editor dropdown.

'''UI'''
* Added "Attach Debugger" action bar shortcut for attaching to the scripting debugger.
* Added copy to clipboard button to log panel messages

'''[[API]]'''
* Added {{cd|isFloat}} to support floating point values in {{cd|addNumber}} Editor Property Pane API.

== Changes ==
'''Palettes'''
* Updated set of blocks and entities that appear within the Editor picker

'''[[API]]'''
* Removed fallback display text properties from API in favor of single localized property.
** Added {{cd|labelproperty}} to {{cd|IDropdownItem}} API, removed {{cd|displayAltText}} and {{cd|displayStringId}} properties
** Added {{cd|labelproperty}} to {{cd|IMenuCreationParams}} API, removed {{cd|name}} and {{cd|displayStringId}} properties
** Added {{cd|titleproperty}} to {{cd|IPropertyItemOptions}} and {{cd|IPropertyItem}} APIs, removed {{cd|titleAltText}} and {{cd|titleStringId}} properties
** Added {{cd|title}} and {{cd|tooltip}} properties to {{cd|ModalToolCreationParameters}} API, removed {{cd|titleAltText}}, {{cd|titleStringId}}, {{cd|tooltipAltText}} and {{cd|tooltipStringId}} properties

== Fixes ==
* Fixed bug that caused visual artifacts when enabling Deferred Lighting in Editor.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|alpha}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.6.8]]
[[uk:0.6.8 (Bedrock Editor)]]