{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.9023.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.90.23
| image = Bedrock 1.21.90.23 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.90.23.png
| build = 33126055
| editorver = 0.9.8
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952109023 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962109023 (x86, 34)<br />
972109023 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982109023 (x86_64, 34)
| date = May 7, 2025
| server = 1.21.90.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.23.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.90
| prevparent = 1.21.84
| prev = Preview 1.21.90.21
| next = Preview 1.21.90.25
| nextparent = 1.21.91
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.90.23''' (ChromeOS, Android), or '''Preview 1.21.90.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.90]], released on May 7, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36415388784909-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-23|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 7, 2025}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Vibrant Visuals]]'''
*Updated a variety of MERS textures in Vibrant Visuals:
**Made Glass Blocks more reflective
**Tweaked metallics on Cauldrons and Ancient Debris
**Tweaked emissives on Eyeblossom
**Added emissive to the Ender Crystal Block to match item icon
**Added MERS textures for Happy Ghast and Harnesses
**Adjusted the Glow Lichen block emissive
*Improved Snell's window effect when looking up from underwater in Vibrant Visuals.
*The End flash is now visible again in the End in Vibrant Visuals.

=== General ===
'''[[Locator Bar]]'''
*The Locator Bar has been de-experimentified and is now available in non-experimental worlds.

'''[[UI]]'''
*Chat background opacity can now be controlled with a new accessibility setting.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
:{{cd|@minecraft/server 2.0.0}}
*Released {{cd|getBlockBelow}} and {{cd|getBlockAbove}} on {{cd|Dimension}} to {{cd|2.0.0}}.
*Changed {{cd|players}} property on {{cd|PlayAnimationOptions}} to an array of {{cd|Player}} objects, instead of string names in {{cd|2.0.0}}.
*Released error {{cd|ContainerRulesError}} to {{cd|2.0.0}}.
*Removed {{cd|CameraDefaultOptions}} for {{cd|V2.0}}.
**Added {{cd|setDefaultCamera(cameraPreset: string, easeOptions?: CameraEaseOptions): void}} to {{cd|V2.0}}. This will replace passing the {{cd|CameraDefaultOptions}} into the {{cd|Camera.setCamera}} function. Will also now reset the position and rotation of third-person cameras back to the values defined in the JSON.

'''Components'''
*Added validation for asset references in particle effect Json:
**texture reference in {{cd|basic_render_parameters}}
**block references in {{cd|minecraft:particle_expire_if_in_blocks}}
**block references in {{cd|minecraft:particle_expire_if_not_in_blocks}}

'''Goals'''
*{{cd|minecraft:rideable}} component's {{cd|dismount_mode}} is now correctly applied when passengers are forced to dismount by the {{cd|minecraft:behavior.float}} goal.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Upcoming Creator Features" experimental toggles.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
:{{cd|@minecraft/server 2.1.0-beta}}
*Added enum {{cd|ContainerRulesErrorReason}} to {{cd|beta}}. Contains the reasons that {{cd|ContainerRulesError}} can fail.
*Added interface {{cd|ContainerRules}} to {{cd|beta}}. Contains rules that if broken on container operations will throw a {{cd|ContainerRulesError}}.
*{{cd|Container}}
**Added optional property{{cd|readonly containerRules?: ContainerRules}} to {{cd|beta}}. If the rules of the container are broken will throw a {{cd|ContainerRulesError}}.
**Added property {{cd|readonly weight: number}} to {{cd|beta}}. The total weight of all {{cd|ItemStacks}} in the container.
*{{cd|ItemStack}}
**Added property {{cd|readonly weight: number}} to {{cd|beta}}. The total weight all the items in the {{cd|ItemStack}}.
*Added class {{cd|ItemInventoryComponent}} to {{cd|beta}}. This component will be on all items that contain a {{cd|minecraft:storage_item}} component and will allow access to its container.

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Added {{cd|minecraft:random_offset}} component under the Upcoming Creator Features toggle. This allows for blocks to randomly offset like foliage does in the Vanilla game. Example:
<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
{  
    "format_version": "1.21.80",
    "minecraft:block": {
       "description": {
          "identifier": "test:test_block"
       },
       "components": {
          "minecraft:collision_box": {
             "origin": [-4.0, 4.0, -4.0],
             "size": [8, 8, 8]
          },
          "minecraft:random_offset": {
             "x": {
                // This is the range of possible values we can pick from
                "range": {
                   "min": -4,
                   "max": 4
                },
                // This is the equally spaced steps across the given range 
                // Provide 0 for all possible values in the range
                "steps": 16
             },
             "y": {
                "range": {
                   "min": -4,
                   "max": 4
                },
                "steps": 16
             },
             "z": {
                "range": {
                   "min": -4,
                   "max": 4
                },
                "steps": 16
             }
          }
       }
    }
</syntaxhighlight>

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
*Updated error messaging when imports can't be found.
*Removed content warning when a custom component was registered without closures for custom components V2:
**This allows {{cd|data-only}} components to be registered in script and added to blocks and items that only contain parameters without functionality.

'''[[Experiment]]al'''
*The {{cmd|controlscheme}} command no longer requires the "Experimental Creator Camera" toggle.
**The {{cd|camera_relative_strafe}} control scheme remains experimental and still requires the toggle.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.90.23 Preview
|;old
|79331|Text Background Opacity doesn't work for most text
|80319|Parrots imitate mobs way too often
|114701|Magma cubes and slimes jump when changing goals
|166394|Slime and Magma Cube can still attack player during death animation
|174857|Some Wither Skeleton related sounds still outdated
|188353|Unable to put specific amount of items inside of a bundle using touch controls
|189501|Attacking a mob or player while sprint jumping randomly removes all of the player's momentum, sometimes even teleporting the player backwards
|200698|Vibrant Visuals: Textures turn pink after suspend and resume, opening Settings, or exiting world
|201604|Ghasts and Happy Ghasts are not affected by splash potions that hit their top
|201832|Hitting blocks while swimming will slow you down
|201849|Ghast stays completely still when shooting fireballs with the Drop 2 2025 experiment enabled
|206642|Vibrant Visuals: Static water looks clearer than flowing water
|206924|Vibrant Visuals: Reflections flicker severely on higher than default FOV
|212409|Vibrant Visuals: Artifacts on clouds when viewing them up close
|216825|The {{cd|faceLocation}} property of custom component player interact events is not relative to the block
|;previous
|217768|Particles with material {{cd|particles_blend}} do not render correctly with Vibrant Visuals
|otherissuescount=22}}
'''Other'''
*Harness is no longer invisible on a Happy Ghast when equipped by a Dispenser.
*Empty open Bundle icon now renders correctly when Bundles are tapped with Touch Controls.
*Marking read only structures for deletion along with editable ones no longer disables the delete button.
*Saving a large structure from a selection on the Structure Panel no longer makes the game unresponsive.
*Fixed projectiles not being fired in the correct direction when using custom cameras and touch input.
*Using a custom equippable block item in creative mode will no longer duplicate the item and equip it; it will simply place the block in the world.
*Fixed an issue with Leather armor having a stripe of emissive across the texture.
*Fixed a z-fighting issue between water and leaf blocks in Vibrant Visuals.
*Fixed an issue where Vibrant Visuals would sometimes apply to worlds that do not correctly support it.
*Fixed Enderman held blocks not being shaded correctly in Vibrant Visuals.
*Fixed an issue with moving blocks (e.g. blocks held by Endermen, TNT inside of minecarts) not casting shadows in Vibrant Visuals.
*Fixed a crash happening on PS5 when loading a world with leashed entities.
*Fixed a bug where Parrots imitating a Drowned used Zombie sounds.
*Fixed a bug where sliders move super fast when using gamepad. Added a timeout to avoid this problem.
*Fixed a crash when blocks that specify non-existent textures as {{cd|carried_textures}} are held in hand.
*Fix for incorrect normals and/or crashes when holding certain items in hand with Vibrant Visuals enabled.
*Fixed an issue where entities are rendering and animating twice.
*Fixed a crash with the Debug Drawing system after using the {{cmd|reload}} command.
*Fixed an issue where Debug Drawing primitives wouldn't be visible after using the {{cmd|reload}} command.
*Fixed an issue where Debug Drawing primitives wouldn't be visible for new players joining the world.
*Fixed the {{cd|minecraft:follow_orbit}} camera not having the correct control scheme in its allow list.
*The touch screen d-pad control now shows the correct buttons when using camera relative control schemes.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.90 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.90.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.90.23]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.90.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.90.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.90.23]]