{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.210.54.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21054.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21054.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.54<br>
|build=5207296
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' January 7, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=beta 1.16.210.53
|next=beta 1.16.210.55
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.54''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on January 7, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360055108571|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.54 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 7, 2021}}</ref> which brought changes to commands, and fixes bugs. This is the first beta released in 2021. 

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added text-to-speech setting to the Audio settings.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|camerashake}}'''
* Added stop action command.

'''{{cmd|mixer}}'''
* Re-added back into the game.

'''{{cmd|structure}}'''
* Can now delete saved structure list with {{cmd|/structure delete}} command.

=== General ===
'''Accessibility '''
* Changed the following options names:
** "Enable Text To Speech For Chat" to "Text To Speech For Chat".
** "Enable Text To Speech with Device Settings" to "Text To Speech with Device Settings".
** "Enable UI Screen Reader" to "Text To Speech For UI".

== Fixes ==
'''General '''
* Ink Sac from Wandering Trader can now be used for crafting and it can be stacked ({{bug|MCPE-101087}}).

'''Character Creator'''
* Emote wheel now supports Screen Reader on Android and iOS devices.
* Split-screen characters are now stored in memory and re-joining the game will keep the character that the player had ({{bug|MCPE-58640}}).

'''Marketplace'''
* Fixed upgrade path for {{cd|format_version}} 1.13.0 boats to be properly upgraded to 1.16.100, which resolves a bug where boats in templated worlds with a version lower than 1.16.100 had no gravity ({{bug|MCPE-104934}}).

'''Commands'''
* Documentation for Bedrock Server Commands has been updated to show the correct commands for permission reloading and listing ({{bug|BDS-2341}}).
* Teleport command now correctly aligns the rotation with the destination entity ({{bug|MCPE-35979}}).
* Selector argument options can again be seen and auto-completed correctly after specifying one ({{bug|MCPE-59794}}).
* Spawn events now show as suggestions for the {{cmd|summon}} command ({{bug|MCPE-101112}}).
* {{cd|SendCommandFeedback}} no longer prevents display of outgoing messages ({{bug|MCPE-95217}}).
* Multiple {{cmd|tickingarea add}} or {{cmd|tickingarea remove}} commands performed during the same tick will no longer result in inaccurate messages about the number of ticking areas in use.
* Players can no longer overrun the maximum number of standalone ticking areas in use by adding them all in the same tick.

'''Scoreboards'''
* Score values on the scoreboard now align on the right of the table ({{bug|MCPE-64973}}).</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.54]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.54]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.54]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.54]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.54]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.54 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.54]]