{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.50.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.50.23.png
| edition = Bedrock Edition
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.5023.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.5023.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.50.23
| type = Preview
| parent = 1.19.50
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - November 3, 2022
| prevparent = 1.19.41
| prev = Preview 1.19.50.22
| next = Preview 1.19.50.24
| nextparent = 1.19.51
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.50.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.50.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.50]], released on November 3, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/10309733836429|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.50.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 3, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|execute}}'''
* The updated {{cmd|execute}} command syntax, more similar to ''Java Edition'', is no longer behind the "Upcoming Creator Features" experimental toggle.
=== Technical ===
'''Graphical'''
* Added <code>D3D12</code> support for Intel Integrated/Dedicated Graphics for compatible drivers.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== General ====
'''Commands'''
* Removed the "Upcoming Creator Features" requirement for the new {{cmd|execute}} command syntax.
'''Sound'''
* Fixed an issue where [[Hanging Sign]]s would not be affected by block volume.
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Sign]]s and [[Hanging Sign]]s'''
* The "Place" prompt is now displayed correctly for all variations of Sign and Hanging Sign when using a controller.
* Mobs now pathfind properly on top of side-attached Hanging Signs.
* Fixed an issue where Hanging Signs could replace Spore Blossoms and Big Dripleaf.
* Fixed an issue where Hanging Signs could attach to Bamboo Saplings.
'''[[Slab]]s'''
* Fixed an issue where using pick-block on a double Bamboo Mosaic Slab or breaking it would give a Bamboo Slab. ({{bug|MCPE-163906}})
==== Mobs ====
'''[[Camel]]'''
* Players can no longer ride Camels through/in deep water. ({{bug|MCPE-163608}})
* Sitting Camels do not play the sitting down animation on load anymore, instead they are loaded already sitting.
* Camels can now auto step up one and a half blocks without jumping. ({{bug|MCPE-163322}})
==== Non-mob entities ====
'''[[Boat]]s and [[Boat with Chest]]s'''
* The name displayed for “Bamboo Raft with Chest” is now “Raft with Chest”. ({{bug|MCPE-163327}})
* When dismounting from Raft and Raft with Chest the correct tooltip is now shown. ({{bug|MCPE-163326}})
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Fixed a bug where property velocity would return incorrect values in certain situations. ({{bug|MCPE-152715}})
* Added function ''canPlace'' - Returns if it is valid to place the desired block type or block permutation at a specified location (and optional face of the block).
* Added function ''trySetPermutation'' - Attempts to place the desired block permutation at a location by first checking ''canPlace''.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Boats and Boats with Chest are no longer teleported to (0, 0, 0) when pushed by a Piston. ({{bug|MCPE-163330}})
* Fixed Bamboo Saplings not breaking when pushed by Pistons.
'''General'''
* Fixed improper LevelChunk blending when upgrading pre-1.18 worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-162480}})
'''Items'''
* Fixed issues with Book & Quill not able to be signed and closed. ({{bug|MCPE-163325}})
* Fixed a bug where Chain Command Blocks would not activate when Delay in Ticks was greater than 0.
'''Realms'''
* Shortened text when uploading worlds and add-ons so it fits in the dialog.
* You will no longer get an error message when joining a Realm that has been empty for several minutes.
'''Stability and Performance'''
* Navigating through the Recipe Book when the player had items that contain mobs in their inventory no longer causes significant drops in performance. ({{bug|MCPE-146462}})
* Reduced server lag with items going in and out of Hoppers. ({{bug|MCPE-68796}})
* Fixed Xbox controller stick deadzone and sensitivity. ({{bug|MCPE-162847}})
'''Touch Controls'''
* Fixed the Dismount button in the New Touch Control Schemes looking blurry. ({{bug|MCPE-156722}})
'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug in Pocket UI Inventory screen, where items could not be dropped back to inventory in Creative Mode.
* Fixed a bug in Pocket UI Inventory screen, where the ‘Craftable/All’ toggle could only be changed in the Search tab but not in any other tab.
* On Xbox, camera movement with mouse no longer changes mouse position when menu is reopened. ({{bug|MCPE-162890}})
* Text color for a selected item stack count is now white instead of yellow.
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Getting killed by a mob with a renamed weapon no longer produces a death message with a redundant 's' at the end. ({{bug|MCPE-163283}})
'''Spectator Mode'''
* When entering Spectator Mode while typing on a Sign, the Sign text screen now closes.
* If you swap into Spectator Mode while standing alone on a Pressure Plate, you lose weight and the Pressure Plate releases. ({{bug|MCPE-163177}})
'''Commands'''
* Running {{cmd|execute as}} from Command Blocks no longer inherits rotation from entity. ({{bug|MCPE-162680}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.50.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.50.23]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.50.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.50.23]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.50.23]]