{{redirect|2.00|the joke version|Java Edition 2.0|the launcher version|Launcher 2.0}}
{{Infobox version
|title=v1.14.0.12 <!-- sic -->
|internal='''PS4''': 2.00
|image=Bedrock 1.14.0.12.png
|edition=Bedrock
|date='''PS4''': December 13, 2019
|devversions=none
|prevparent=1.14.0
|next=1.14.1
|nextparent=1.16.0
}}

'''1.14.0.12''' is a hotfix to {{el|be}} released only for PlayStation 4 on December 13, 2019.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360037910991|title=Minecraft - 1.14.0.12 (PS4 Only)|date=December 13, 2019}}</ref>

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed several crashes that could occur when converting a world from ''PlayStation 4 Edition''. ({{bug|MCPE-58594}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when signing into a Microsoft account.
* Fixed a crash that could occur in the trial version when performing an action that would unlock a trophy.
* Fixed several crashes.

'''Performance'''
* Having many Editions worlds no longer increases startup time.

'''General'''
* Fixed the error that would occur when pressing the 'Unlock Full Game' button in the trial version.
* Fixed the 'Error Number 0' account error that occurred on the main menu and store.

'''Gameplay'''
* View bobbing once again behaves correctly when facing north and south. ({{bug|MCPE-56214}})
* Shulker boxes with items are no longer missing from chests after converting a world from ''PlayStation 4 Edition''. ({{bug|MCPE-58465}})
* Fixed world conversion enabling cheats on Survival worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-58499}})
* Fixed some trophies unlocking for all players during a multiplayer session.

'''Mobs'''
* Bees will now die after attacking. ({{bug|MCPE-53860}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed broken textures appearing after resource packs are deactivated.
* Fixed some character creator items appearing incorrectly.

'''User interface'''
* Fixed an issue that caused some players not to be able to leave the inventory screen on the Marketplace.
* Fixes to character creator screens when scrolling with the right thumbstick.
* Fixed placeholder text appearing on the resource packs and behavior packs screens.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0.12]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0.12]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.14.0.12]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0.12]]
[[pl:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0.12]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.14.0.12]]
[[ru:1.14.0.12 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock 1.14.0.12]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.12]]