{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.11022.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.110.22
| image = Bedrock 1.21.110.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.110.22.png
| build = 35591689
| editorver = 1.0.6
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952111022 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962111022 (x86, 34)<br />
972111022 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982111022 (x86_64, 34)
| date = July 30, 2025
| server = 1.21.110.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.110.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.110.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.111
| prevparent = 1.21.101
| prev = Preview 1.21.110.20
| next = Preview 1.21.110.23
| nextparent = 1.21.112
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.110.22''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.110.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.111]]{{note|1.21.110 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of 1.21.111.|name=1.21.111}}, released on July 30, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/38434933991821-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-110-22|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.110.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=July 30, 2025}}</ref> which adds [[copper horse armor]], and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Copper Horse Armor]]'''
*Added copper horse armor.
**Has the same loot table and chance of generating as iron horse armor.
** Give {{armor|4}}.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Copper Golem Statue]]'''
*Scraping and reviving an unoxidized copper golem statue now damages the axe.
*Added controller input hint text for using block to change pose.

'''[[Lightning Rod]]'''
*Lightning rods now oxidize like other copper blocks and the lightning rod on the copper golem.

'''[[Shelf]]'''
*Hoppers and droppers can now add or remove items to/from the shelf.
*Shelves can now be waterlogged.
*Shelf storage now affects comparator's output signal depending on which slots are occupied:
**Each shelf slot corresponds to 1 bit
**The signal strength is determined by converting the 3 bits of the slots into a decimal value
**All slots empty [000] means a signal strength of 0
**Only the first slot occupied [100] means a signal strength of 1
**Only the second slot occupied [010] means a signal strength of 2
**Only the third slot occupied [001] means a signal strength of 4
**All slots occupied [111] means a signal strength of 7
*Non-solid blocks can no longer be placed on the top, bottom, front or sides of the shelf.
*Powered shelves now connect even when they are made of different types of wood.

=== Gameplay ===
'''Camera'''
*Rider rotation lock now applies to cameras when using camera relative movement.

=== General ===
'''Blending'''
*Enabled blending for legacy chunks.
**This fixes an issue where blocks were missing from the terrain after loading into the world on some starter biomes.

'''UI'''
*Resized the "Textures & More" button icon to be in line with the other button icons.

=== Technical ===
'''AI Goals'''
*Made the schemas for the following goals stricter when parsing and will fail to load an entity json that has invalid data in versions {{cd|1.21.110}} and newer:
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.roar}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.slime_attack}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.slime_float}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.slime_keep_on_jumping}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.slime_random_direction}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.sniff}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.sonic_boom}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.stay_near_noteblock}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.swim_idle}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.swim_up_for_breath}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.swim_wander}}
**{{cd|minecraft:behavior.swoop_attack}}

'''[[Commands]]'''
*Updated {{cmd|locate biome}} to support underground biomes:
**Y axis is more accurate to exactly where the biome is.

'''Components'''
*Updates to {{cd|minecraft:dash_action}}:
**Added new field {{cd|direction}} taking either {{cd|entity}} or {{cd|passenger}} as its value. Defaults to {{cd|entity}}:
***{{cd|entity}}:
****Behaves like before.
***{{cd|passenger}}:
****Momentum applied from the dash action will now instead be applied in the view direction of the passenger entity, using the {{cd|horizontal_momentum}} as forward momentum and {{cd|vertical_momentum}} as upward momentum in the direction of the passenger. Short of it: looking up with horizontal momentum will launch you upwards.
***Old schemas with format version older than {{cd|1.21.110}} will automatically receive the {{cd|entity}} direction.

'''Entity Components'''
*Changed the schema for the {{cd|minecraft:experience_reward}} entity component so that the {{cd|on_bred}} and {{cd|on_death}} members no longer accept arrays; only single Molang expressions are now supported for each member.

'''[[Gameplay]]'''
*From {{cd|1.21.110}} onward, the free camera and fixed boom cameras use camera relative strafe as default scheme.

'''Item Components'''
*Repairing an item using the {{cd|minecraft:repairable}} item component no longer fails when a stack larger than strictly needed is used as repair material.
*Added the new {{cd|minecraft:fire_resistant}} item component, which determines whether an item is immune to burning when dropped in fire or lava.
** Functions like [[netherite]] items.

'''[[Item]]s'''
*{{cd|poly_mesh}} is now documented as a deprecated feature:
**It was already treated as deprecated, but the documentation did not reflect this.
*{{cd|texture_meshes}} is no longer documented as an experimental feature:
**It was already treated as non-experimental, but the documentation did not reflect this.

'''Network Protocol'''
*Modified the binary format of {{cd|PlayerArmorDamagePacket}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.110.22 Preview
|;old
|62252|Block directional placement is asymmetrical for command blocks when certain coordinates are negative
|152962|Armor pieces don't display toughness stat
|179110|Invert Y-Axis for touch controls does not work in Spectator mode
|184808|"Switch sneaking and jumping" option also changes flying and swimming up
|223011|Parity issue: Glass blocks held by endermen are visually opaque
|223744|The title inside Copper Chest container is incorrect
|223876|Copper Golem takes fall damage
|;prev
|225217|Nether wood shelves flammable
|225226|Shelves do not interact with comparators
|225315|Crimson Shelf and Warped Shelf can be used as fuel for the Furnace.
|225441|Full bundles in shelf became empty after returning from the Nether
|otherissuescount=9}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed position of copper golem spawn egg to be after the iron golem spawn egg.
*Fixed an issue with being unable to continue destroying valid blocks in adventure mode when they are behind water.
*Fixed the shelf place and take item sounds not playing.
*Fixed the shelf power on and off sounds not playing.
*Fixed attempting to place a painting on a block that already has a painting spamming its place sound effect even though it cannot be placed.
*Colored text on signs no longer appear dark in Vibrant Visuals.
*Fixed Realms crash in liquid sensing system.
*Fixed a crash when wearing some character creator pieces that support custom colorization.
*Fix for custom biomes no longer appearing in game.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.111 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.110.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.110.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.110.22]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.110.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.110.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.110.22]]