{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.100.52.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.10052.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.10052.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.100.52<br>
|build=4548806
|parent=1.16.100
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' August 19, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.61
|prev=beta 1.16.100.51
|next=beta 1.16.100.53
|nextparent=1.16.101
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.100.52''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.100]], released on August 19, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360048306131-Minecraft-Beta-1-16-100-52-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.100.52 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=August 19, 2020}}</ref> which added new commands, more parity features from ''Java Edition'', technical changes, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|playanimation}}'''
* Used to run a one-off animation.
'''{{cmd|ride}}'''
* Used to make entities ride other entities, stop entities from riding, make rides evict their riders, or summon rides or riders.
'''{{cmd|structure}}'''
* Used to save and load structures without having to use structure blocks.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Brewing Stand]]s'''
*Can now be crafted with [[Blackstone]].
'''[[Farmland]]'''
*Now gives itself when pickblocked, instead of normal dirt.
*Can now be obtained using {{cmd|give}} command.

=== General ===
'''Technical'''
* Updated Actor Properties. Two fields that were invalid and appeared in some vanilla content will now give a content error. The field 'value' on {{cd|minecraft:can_fly}} and the property {{cd|minecraft:foot_size}} should simply be removed from any entity files.
* Make boat use the Buoyancy Component. Added two new components, the {{cd|inside_block_notifier}} component, which fires specified events when the actor enters or exits specified blocks, and the {{cd|out_of_control}} component, which sets a corresponding actor flag, in order to make this possible.
* Added error checks to parsing of minecraft shareables items. Displays content log if item name is invalid or the array is empty.
* Attempting to load a custom material that is not defined no longer causes a crash. A proper content error is now thrown.
* Exposed new data parameters to control the behavior of Drop Item For Goal. This includes: {{cd|seconds_before_pickup}}, {{cd|cooldown}}, {{cd|minimum_teleport_distance}}, {{cd|max_head_look_at_height}}, {{cd|teleport_offset}}, and {{cd|entity_types}}.
* Exposed new data parameters to control the behavior of Harvest Farm Block Goal, including {{cd|max_seconds_before_search}}, {{cd|search_cooldown_max_seconds}}, and {{cd|seconds_until_new_task}}. 
* Updated the {{cd|format_versionfield}} in geometry, particles, and animation files to behave as entity behavior files do.

* Aseprite
** The UI now supports using aseprite JSON files for animations, which allows more advanced animations than simple flip books.

* Format Version Checks
** Updated the {{cd|format_versionfield}} in geometry, particles, and animation files to behave as entity behavior files do. 

* SetBannerDetailsFunction
** Now supports customizing non-Illager banners
** Up to 6 patterns and colors can be specified.

== Fixes == 
'''Vanilla Parity'''
*Brewing Stand can now be crafted with Blackstone ({{bug|MCPE-90465}})
*Players can now spawn farmland with the {{cmd|give}} command and pick it with Pick Block ({{bug|MCPE-25691}})
*Cod and Salmon killed by fire damage now drop cooked fish ({{bug|MCPE-30693}}) 

'''Performance and Stability'''
*Fixed a crash that occurred when entering a game with specific texture packs enabled 
*Adding tags to the Ender Dragon will no longer crash the game when reloading the world ({{bug|MCPE-89076}}) 

'''Blocks'''
*Fence gates now align with Blackstone Walls ({{bug|MCPE-78002}}) 
*Placing blocks on Crimson Roots and Warped Roots will now properly remove the roots ({{bug|MCPE-81521}}) 
*Target blocks no longer power additional blocks above them ({{bug|MCPE-85455}}) 
*Cocoa Beans can now be placed on and survive on all jungle wood variants ({{bug|MCPE-46638}}) 

'''Experience Orb'''
*The Experience Orb now ignores world lighting, allowing it to always be at max brightness ({{bug|MCPE-67448}}) 

'''Items'''
*Dropped items no longer float too low to the ground 
*Dragon Egg now always drops when it is destroyed by an explosion ({{bug|MCPE-52632}}) 

'''Mobs'''
*Mobs in lava were not able to find a path out. This fix makes it so they can enter a lava block if they are already in lava 
*Pathfinding will now account for {{cd|minecraft:scale}} component 
*Updated BrewingStand, ButtonBlock, ChestBlock, EnderChestBlock, SlabBlock, and SoulSandBlockblock types to allow path-finding and navigation ({{bug|MCPE-47075}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.52]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.52]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.100.52]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.52]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.100.52]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.100.52 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.100.52]]