{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.04}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.12.0.4.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.12.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>May 8, 2019
|prevparent=1.11.4
|prev=beta 1.12.0.3
|next=beta 1.12.0.6
|nextparent=1.12.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.12.0.4''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]], released on May 8, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360027859292-Minecraft-Beta-1-12-0-4-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.12.0.4 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=May 8, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs and updates the [[main menu]] panorama.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Signs no longer break after being cloned to an area without support.
* Added API documentation for the log function.

'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Updated the panorama from [[Update Aquatic]] to [[Village & Pillage]].

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Sound]]s'''
* Increased the frequency and volume of the ambient [[mob]] sounds made during [[raid]]s, to make them easier to locate.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur on dedicated servers.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to create a new template world.
* Fixed a crash on Nintendo Switch that could occur when suspending and resuming the game.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur while navigating various UI screens.

'''General'''
* Frosted ice that is waiting to melt no longer causes excessive lag. ({{bug|MCPE-39698}})
* Comparators that are powered when loaded, turned off, and then on again in one tick now correctly stop outputting power when it is off for the one tick.
* Fixed an issue with an incorrect spawn point after respawning on the Mario Mash-up pack.
* Removed the sand trade from the wandering trader and adjusted the cost of a diamond hoe on the toolsmith.
* Resource packs are now applied correctly after downloading through the world or global settings.
* Fixed an issue with player skins not loading correctly between devices.
* Dates appear again next to player earned achievements in the achievements menu.
* The "Zombie Doctor" achievement now unlocks when the player cures a zombie villager.

'''Gameplay'''
* Players no longer clip through walls when transitioning from swimming to standing up in water.
* Players now receive damage when trapped in fallen sand/gravel. ({{bug|MCPE-45704}})
* Combining two heavily damaged tools in the crafting table now creates a tool with the correct durability.

'''Mobs'''
* Iron golems no longer run to the world center after its village is destroyed. ({{bug|MCPE-45509}})
* Spiders can correctly path-find over obstacles again.
* Tweaked polar bear head position animation.

'''Graphical'''
* Tinted spawn eggs are now properly scaled in item frames.
* Red sandstone stairs now have correct textures on all sides. ({{bug|MCPE-20677}})
* Updated the glass texture for locked maps in the cartography table UI. ({{bug|MCPE-43314}})

'''User interface'''
* Going back to the Play screen (or Settings screen) now properly selects the previously selected tab when text to speech is enabled.
* Fixed an issue on Xbox that could prevent the menus from being navigated after signing in to a Microsoft account.
* The book icon in the enchantment table UI is no longer overlapping the runic inscription (Pocket UI).
* The "Wheel Turning" button is now only shown once in the Minecraft VR settings.

'''Commands'''
* Fixed an issue that sometimes caused command blocks to fail to execute commands for no apparent reason.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.4]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.4]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.12.0.4]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.4]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.12.0.4]]
[[ru:Beta 1.12.0.4 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.12.0.4]]