{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.0.24 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.0.24.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.18.24.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.24.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.0.24<br>
|parent=1.18.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': October 27, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.41
|prev=beta 1.18.0.23
|next=beta 1.18.0.25
|nextparent=1.18.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.0.24''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.0]], released on October 27, 2021, which added a warning message when opening up an old world, and fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4412150636941-Minecraft-Beta-1-18-0-24-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.18.0.24 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=October 27, 2021}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Magma Cube]]s'''
* Now attacks iron golems.

'''[[Slime]]s'''
* No longer attack snow golems.

=== World Generation ===
'''[[Biome]]s'''
* Changed some biome IDs name:
:{| class="wikitable"
! Old name !! New name
|-
| {{BiomeLink|id=jagged-peaks}} <code>lofty_peaks</code>||<code>jagged_peaks</code>
|-
| {{BiomeLink|id=grove}} <code>mountain_grove</code>||<code>grove</code>
|-
| {{BiomeLink|id=meadow}} <code>mountain_meadow</code>||<code>meadow</code>
|-
| {{BiomeLink|id=frozen-peaks}} <code>snow_capped_peaks</code>||<code>frozen_peaks</code>
|}

'''[[Mineshaft]]s'''
* Wood pillars are now made of [[log]]s instead of [[wood]].

'''[[Seed (world generation)|Seeds]]'''
* Have been reshuffled again. Worlds will not look like as they did in previous betas.<ref>{{tweet|henrikkniberg|1453406170157359109|Unfortunately the seeds have been shuffled again, so worlds will not look like they did in previous snapshots. Hopefully world seeds will be stable after this though, so let the real seed hunt begin!|October 27, 2021}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|atorstling|1453475303788064768|Sorry about that, might be my fault for not getting that announced. Anyway, we hope that this was the last shuffle, but no guarantees :)|October 27, 2021}}</ref>

=== General ===
'''World Selection'''
* Added a warning when opening up and updating an old world, with a backup world option.
** When enabled, it creates a new copy of the world.

== Fixes ==
'''Blocks'''
* Players can once again continuously place water, lava, and powder snow by holding down the 'Place' button ({{bug|MCPE-139671}}).
* Light blocks no longer support blocks that need support, e.g. beds and paintings ({{bug|MCPE-144311}}).

'''Mineshaft'''
* Mineshaft pillars should no longer generate in lava ({{bug|MCPE-135221}}).
* Mineshafts will not generate dirt floors anymore ({{bug|MCPE-141583}}).
* Mineshafts now use log blocks for creating support pillars ({{bug|MCPE-125133}}).

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed a problem that caused certain worlds to increase in size, causing high RAM usage ({{bug|MCPE-143156}}).
* Fixed shallow water turning brighter when aimed while holding a small drip leaf ({{bug|MCPE-123373}}).
* Tall flowers will now drop only one item when broken by water placed in the upper half of the flower ({{bug|MCPE-142799}}).
* Fixed an issue where terrain could be seen through.
* Education Features: NPCs no longer have idle sounds ({{bug|MCPE-141856}}).
* Chorus fruit now works correctly at negative Y coordinates ({{bug|MCPE-135951}}).

'''Items'''
* Adjusted the smoothness of movement for primed TNT, lingering potions, splash potions, and bottle o' enchanting when far from players ({{bug|MCPE-101102}}).
* Multiple Education Edition items no longer show the "craftingScreen.tab.none" tooltip ({{bug|MCPE-102444}}).
* All ground vegetation can now be placed on mycelium ({{bug|MCPE-125928}}).

'''Mobs'''
* Increased the chances of axolotl naturally spawning in lush caves.
* Fish now attempt to avoid axolotls.
* Magma cubes are now correctly aggressive towards iron golems and slimes are no longer aggressive towards snow golems ({{bug|MCPE-51162}}).
* Phantoms should now be able to free themselves after getting stuck when trying to pathfind into mountains ({{bug|MCPE-119773}}).

'''World Generation'''
* Ore generation has now been tweaked to be in parity with Java Edition.
* Gravel can now correctly replace deepslate during world generation ({{bug|MCPE-144080}}).
* Gold Ore in badlands biomes are no longer generating in too large of quantities.
* Lava sources are no longer generated in frozen ocean biomes ({{bug|MCPE-144733}}).
* Deepslate copper ore variant is now correctly generating in the world.
* Updated naming for new Caves & Cliffs mountain biomes to better match between Bedrock and Java Edition.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixes the rendering of the icons in text, making the colors not distorted.

'''Technical '''
* Fixed mobs default summonability when not specified in JSON.
* Improved performance in 'RangedAttackGoal' for mobs that do not move.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.24]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.24]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.24]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.18.0.24]]
[[ru:Beta 1.18.0.24 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock beta 1.18.0.24]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.0.24]]