{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.4.0
| edition = editor
| type =
| date = June 28, 2023
| client = 1.20.20.20
| prevparent = 0.3
| prev = 0.3.7
| next = 0.4.1
| nextparent = 0.5.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.4.0''', also known as '''The Editor API Update''', is an alpha release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on June 28, 2023, which adds support for Editor Extensions and access to the Editor Scripting API.<ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/17151426531085-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-20-20</ref><ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/130</ref>

== Additions ==
'''Editor API'''
* Released Editor API in the {{cd|@minecraft/server-editor}} module.
* Released the ability to create TypeScript-based Editor Extensions.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug where number slider thumbs in the tool panes were extending beyond the boundaries of the pane.
* Fixed a bug where clicking on the selected tool in the tool rail was not re-opening the closed tool pane.
* Fixed an issue where structure void, light, and barrier blocks were only visible when the player was holding them – now they’re always visible in the Editor.
* Fixed a bug that caused the player's body to not rotate in third-person view when the simulation is paused.
* Improved logging and moved operation chat notifications to the log panel.
* Fixed selection gizmo visibility when there is no active selection. Previously, when there was no selection volume, selection arrow gizmos were being rendered at the world origin (0,0,0).
* The selected theme will now be correctly applied to external links in the Help tab of the Quick Start panel.
* Removed the non-functional hamburger menu button from the Quick Panel tabs.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|alpha}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.4.0]]
[[ru:0.4.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.4.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]