{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.5020.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.50.20<br>'''Android reupload''': 1.21.50.22<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.21.50.20 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.50.20.png
| build = 28354324
| editorver = 0.7.4
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952105020 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962105020 (x86, 34)<br />
972105020 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982105020 (x86_64, 34)<br />
'''Android reupload''':<br />
952105062 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962105062 (x86, 34)<br />
972105062 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982105062 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = '''Original''': October 9, 2024<br>
'''Reupload''': October 11, 2024
| server = 1.21.50.20
| serverdl = '''Server (1.21.50.20)'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.20.zip Linux]<br>'''Server (1.21.50.22)'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.50
| prevparent = 1.21.44
| prev = 
| next = Preview 1.21.50.24
| nextparent = 1.21.51
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.50.20''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.50.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50]], released on October 9, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/30892949042189|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.50.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 9, 2024}}</ref> which adds '''[[The Garden Awakens]]''' features and fixes bugs.

This version was accidentally released for ''all'' Android players, including those not enrolled in the beta program.<ref name=beta-bugreport>{{Cite bug|MCPE|187297|My Minecraft entered beta on Android 1.21.50 on its own|date=October 9, 2024|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20241010070801/https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE-187297|access-date=October 10, 2024}}</ref><ref>{{Cite Discord
|url=https://discord.com/channels/302094807046684672/436219236420157450/1293687722581557329
|channel=english-game-announcements
|server=MINECRAFT
|user=lza
|date=October 9, 2024
|title=🚨 '''ATTENTION ANDROID PLAYERS''' 🚨<br><br>Today's patch was mistakenly released from our Beta builds. Until this is reversed, we recommend that you '''DO NOT UPDATE UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE'''. If you've already updated, '''DO NOT OPEN ANY WORLDS'''. Any worlds that are opened in 1.21.50.20 Beta will be upgraded to that version and you will not be able to open them in 1.21.30 - you'll have to wait until the 1.21.50 full release to open them again.<br><br>We apologize for any frustration or inconvenience this may cause, and immensely appreciate your patience and understanding in the meantime as we work to resolve this.}}</ref> This was fixed the next day by reuploading [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.31]] for all players, and then reuploading the beta correctly with the version number '''1.21.50.22'''.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Creaking Heart]]'''
* A creaking heart is a “living” block generating in pale oak trees, covered on all sides by pale oak wood logs.
** It can spawn a creaking mob when it is nighttime, and it is placed between two correctly aligned pale oak log blocks.
** Is active during night and dormant during day.
* Sends a trail of particles towards the connected creaking when the creaking gets hit by the player.
** Particle speed is affected by the distance of the creaking from the heart block.
* Mining the block is most efficiently done with an axe, but it only drops when using a [[Silk Touch]] tool.
** When creaking heart block is destroyed, the connected creaking is removed.

'''[[Pale Hanging Moss]]'''
* Pale hanging moss generates naturally in the pale garden biome under the foliage of pale oaks.
** Pale hanging moss does not grow randomly, but can be bonemealed to grow down.

'''[[Pale Moss Block]]'''
* Generates naturally in the pale garden biome.
** Pale moss blocks can be bonemealed to spread to compatible blocks.

'''[[Pale Moss Carpet]]'''
* Generates naturally in the pale garden biome.
** When placed, pale moss carpet grows up to two blocks on the solid faces of any block that borders it.
** Pale moss carpet can be bonemealed to grow to full on all solid faces of any block that borders it.

'''[[Pale Oak Leaves]]'''
* A new type of leaves.

'''[[Pale Oak Log]]'''
* A new type of log, as well as a stripped variant.
* Can be used to craft pale oak wood and planks.

'''[[Pale Oak Planks]]'''
* A new type of plank.
* Can be used to craft pale oak [[boat]]s, [[boats with chest]], [[button]]s, [[door]]s, [[fence]]s, [[fence gate]]s, [[hanging signs]], [[pressure plate]]s, [[sign]]s, [[slab]]s, [[stairs]], and [[trapdoor]]s.

'''[[Pale Oak Sapling]]'''
* A new type of sapling.
* Can be placed in [[flower pot]]s.

'''[[Pale Oak Wood]]'''
* A new type of wood, as well as a stripped variant.
* Can be used to craft pale oak planks.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Creaking]]'''
* The creaking spawns at night in the pale garden biome if there is a creaking heart block that has been generated in a pale oak tree.
** Is not affected by light levels but spawns and despawns based on day/night cycle.
* It will follow and attack players up to 32 blocks away from its creaking heart block.
** An activated creaking will not move if a player is looking at it.
** A player wearing a carved pumpkin on their head can look at creaking without it freezing in place.
* Creaking is invulnerable to damage.
** When hit, a particle trail is shown between the creaking and the creaking heart block it is connected to.
** When the creaking heart block the creaking is connected to is destroyed, the creaking is removed, with no loot or experience dropped from the mob.
* Creaking cannot enter [[Boat|boats]].
* Creaking spawned from a creaking heart can not go through portals.
* The Creaking Spawn Egg will spawn a creaking mob that is not connected to a creaking heart. The creaking mob will persist through day and night, loads and saves, and will take damage from attacks and other damage sources. It has one point of health (half a heart).
** Creaking summoned from the creaking heart cannot be spawned with a spawn egg, nor can it be summoned with commands. It can only exist as a part of the creaking heart block.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Pale Garden]]'''
* A new biome which contains pale oaks and Pale Moss blocks/carpet.
* It is a variation of the [[dark forest]] biome, with pale oak trees instead of dark oak trees.
* Animal mobs do not spawn naturally.
* The grass in the pale garden has a desaturated, grayish look, the sky is a smoky gray, and water is a pale light blue.
** Any tinted leaves places in the biome also get a desaturated, gray look.

'''[[Pale oak]]'''
* A new type of tree which can be grown from pale oak saplings in a 2x2 configuration.
** Generates naturally in the pale garden biome.

'''[[Pale moss patch]]'''
*Vegetation patch feature consisting of pale moss and other plants found in the pale garden.

=== General ===
'''[[Sound]]s'''
* Ambient sounds in the pale garden biome do not come from the biome settings but are generated by blocks found in the biome.
** Pale hanging moss emits subtle atmospheric sounds when it is attached to pale oak logs and pale oak leaves.
** Creaking heart block emits a set of eerie sounds when it is active during night and surrounded by Logs on all sides.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bamboo]]'''
*Pickaxes and shovels no longer mine them as quickly as axes.

'''[[Bamboo Sapling]]s'''
*Swords can now cut them instantly, as they do bamboo.
*Axes no longer mine them faster.

'''[[Cobweb]]'''
*Maces no longer mine them faster than other non-sword tools.

'''[[Copper Trapdoor]]s and [[Copper Bulb]]s '''
*They now require a stone pickaxe or better for drops and quick mining.

'''[[Crafter]]s'''
*They now can be mined quickly with any pickaxe.

'''[[Dragon Egg]]'''
*If player somehow manage to mine it, which is almost impossible, it no longer requires a pickaxe to drop and is equally quick to mine with any tool.

'''[[Heavy Core]]s'''
*They are now faster to mine with any improper tool.
*A [[note block]] placed above them now plays the proper sound.

'''[[Moss Carpet]]s'''
*Axes no longer mine them faster.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|/set_movement_authority}}'''
*Added a new option to toggle between Server Authoritative Movement and Client Authoritative Movement. 
**Use {{cmd|/set_movement_authority|server}} to enable Server Authoritative Movement. 
**Use {{cmd|/set_movement_authority|client}} to enable Client Authoritative Movement. 
**This command is currently preview-only and may not be active in some vanilla world.

'''{{cmd|/schedule}}'''
*Added delay overload to the command, which allows players to queue a function to be executed after a certain amount of time. Time can be specified with no postfix, postfix {{cd|t}} to indicate ticks, postfix {{cd|s}} to indicate seconds, or with the postfix {{cd|d}} to indicate days. Players can also give the argument {{cd|append}} to add their request to the queue no matter what, or {{cd|replace}} (which is also the default) to replace all current matching requests with the new one.
**{{cmd|/schedule delay add <function> <delay (ticks)> [append{{!}}replace]}}
**{{cmd|/schedule delay clear <function>}}

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Message]]s'''
*There is now a warning message when the player is prevented from entering an unloaded chunk.

'''[[Death]]'''
*Players will keep their inventory after dying on Easy and Peaceful difficulties.

=== General ===
'''[[Tag]]s'''
*The following block tags are no longer behind the "Upcoming Creator Features" [[experimental]] toggle:
**{{cd|minecraft:diamond_tier_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:iron_tier_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:is_axe_item_destructible}}
***Has been renamed from {{cd|minecraft:is_hatchet_item_destructible}}.
**{{cd|minecraft:is_hoe_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:is_mace_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:is_pickaxe_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:is_shears_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:is_shovel_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:is_sword_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:netherite_tier_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:stone_tier_destructible}}
*Removed the following block tags:
**{{cd|minecraft:is_digger_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:is_tool_item_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:gold_tier_destructible}}
**{{cd|minecraft:wood_tier_destructible}}

'''[[UI]]'''
*Migrated JSON UI Trial Mode modal that was shown in Create New World and Edit World to Ore UI.
*Change the order of tabs in the [[settings]] screen.
*Added UI controls for enabling/disabling beds working and the percentage of players sleeping needed to pass the night.
*Hid "Create from template", and "Import world" buttons when in [[Demo Mode|trial mode]].
*Toggle renderer is now a bindable action under Keyboard and Mouse settings menu.

=== Items ===
'''[[Mace]]'''
*Mace damage now scales with distance fallen when it is used by mobs.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Fox]]es'''
*They can now pick up bundles.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Add-On]]s and Script Engine'''
*The [Beta] fields in the {{cd|minecraft:looked_at}} and {{cd|minecraft:home}} entity components are no longer marked as [Beta] and no longer require {{cd|use_beta_features}} to be specified in the root JSON object.

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Updated {{cd|minecraft:destructible_by_mining}} component, new field {{cd|item_specific_speeds}} no longer experimental.

'''Entity Components'''
*Added new component {{cd|minecraft:can_attack_ghast}}. When added to an entity, it enables that entity to target and attack ghasts.

'''Entity Event Responses'''
*Added the {{cd|play_sound}} entity event response, which allows the owner entity to emit sounds.
**The {{cd|sound}} field specifies the sound event to play.
**Sounds are played at the owner entity's position.

'''General'''
*Creating a new world from a template that supports random seeds will now clear any stored spawn position from the level data.

'''Network Protocol'''
*New actor type added: {{cd|Creaking (146)}}.
*New level events added: {{cd|ParticleCreakingHeartTrail}}, {{cd|ParticleCreakingTeardown}}.
*New level sound events added: {{cd|ImitateCreaking}}, {{cd|CreakingHeartTrail}}, {{cd|CreakingHeartSpawn}}, {{cd|Activate}}, {{cd|Deactivate}}, {{cd|Freeze}}, {{cd|Unfreeze}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Upcoming Creator Features", and "Creator Cameras: New Third Person Presets" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|/loot}}'''
*The {{cd|mine}} overload was added to the {{cmd|/loot}} command under the Upcoming Creator Features experiments.

==== Technical ====
'''Add-Ons and Script Engine'''
*Added {{cd|canUseBlockAsIcon}} bool to the {{cd|minecraft:block_placer}} item component network data to fix bug where clients did not render the block item correctly.

'''API'''
*Add {{cd|collectRuntimeStats}} to {{cd|@minecraft/debug-utilities}} module, exposing script runtime memory usage.
*Added new input permissions that effectively allow creators to enable/disable player inputs including: lateral movement, move forward, move backward, move left, move right, sneak, jump, mount, and dismount.
**Extended {{cd|PlayerInputPermissions}} script class to read and write the new input permissions
**Extended {{cmd|/inputpermission}} command to use the new input permissions
**Extended {{cd|haspermission}} selector to use the new input permissions
*Added {{cd|initialRotation}} optional member to {{cd|SpawnEntityOptions}} for specifying the initial rotation of the spawned entity in degrees.

'''Camera'''
*Added {{cd|minecraft:fixed_boom}} preset to the "Creator Cameras: New Third Person Presets" experimental toggle.

'''[[Molang]]'''
*Added {{cd|query.last_input_mode_is_any}}. 
**It takes one or more arguments ({{cd|keyboard_and_mouse}}, {{cd|touch}}, {{cd|gamepad}}, or {{cd|motion_controller}}). If the last input used is any of the specified string values, returns 1.0. Otherwise returns 0.0. Available on the Client (Resource Packs) only. 
*Added {{cd|query.touch_only_affects_hotbar}}. 
**It returns 1.0 if the touch input only affects the touchbar, otherwise returns 0.0. Available on the Client (Resource Packs) only.

'''Scripting'''
*Added enum {{cd|InputMode}}. 
**{{cd|<nowiki>export enum InputMode { Gamepad = 'Gamepad', KeyboardAndMouse = 'KeyboardAndMouse', MotionController = 'MotionController', Touch = 'Touch', Undetermined = 'Undetermined', }</nowiki>}}
*Added class {{cd|InputInfo}}.
**Field {{cd|touchOnlyAffectsHotbar}}. Whether the player touch input only affects the touchbar or not.
**Field {{cd|lastInputModeUsed}}. The last input mode used by the player.
**Added field {{cd|inputInfo}}.
*Added class {{cd|PlayerInputModeChangeAfterEvent}}.
**Field {{cd|newInputModeUsed}}, the new input mode used by the player.
**Field {{cd|player}}, the player that had the input mode change.
**Field {{cd|previousInputModeUsed}}, the previous input mode used by the player.
*Added class {{cd|PlayerInputModeChangeAfterEventSignal}}.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
*{{cd|BlockComponentTypes}}
**Moved {{cd|FluidContainer}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.16.0}}.
*Moved {{cd|BlockFluidContainerComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.16.0}}.
*Moved {{cd|FluidContainer}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.16.0}}.

'''Graphical'''
*End Portals now cast shadows in the Deferred Technical Preview.
*Improved the visibility of reflective surfaces when underground in the Deferred Technical Preview.
*Slightly reduced the intensity of the wrapping effect of sub surface scattering in the Deferred Technical Preview.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.50.20 Preview
|;old
|32826|Wither boss heads does not look at the player or mob correctly when he is attacking.
|42373|Vindicators/Evokers attack Pillagers when hit by them.
|44454|Vexes don't take damage after a period of time.
|46922|Respiration enchantment does not increase the time between taking drowning damage.
|48265|Wither boss still can move during the spawn animation.
|50057|Stone bricks cannot be used to craft chiseled stone bricks in the stonecutter.
|53775|Vines, tallgrass and ferns have color overlays applied twice.
|64537|Wither spawning and death animations are broken.
|93323|Swords breaks blocks faster than hand.
|120237|Player world spawn is sometimes underwater.
|135605|Chiseled sandstone and chiseled red sandstone cannot be used to craft sandstone stairs and red sandstone stairs.
|135606|Purpur pillars cannot be used to craft purpur slabs.
|162158|Stone buttons do not drop when broken by hand.
|164543|Can't distribute items across other items.
|170791|Content Log GUI in Education Edition worlds.
|173582|Sponges no longer make a sound when absorbing water.
|174345|Sponge and Wet Sponge blocks don't have new sounds.
|179702|If name of world is "tnt" it displays as "TNT" instead.
|180140|Warden textures are completely black in the Deferred Technical Preview.
|181435|The Enable Experiments Modal in Create New and Edit World Screens is Inaccurate with Hardcore Mode Turned On.
|186619|Bundle UI sounds play from the corner of the block the player is standing on.
|otherissuescount=16}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed a bug where duplicate gamepad input hints would be shown in certain scenarios on the death screen when using multiple input methods.
*Joining worlds created from world templates on Realms and dedicated servers no longer prompt the user to download packs for templates they have locally.
*Players can no longer earn achievements or trophies after dying and respawning as a spectator in Hardcore mode.
*Fixed a bug where new invite links on Realm are shown as Expired after being created on Kindle devices.
*Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after uploading and joining a Realm.
*Fixed an issue where the game would occasionally hang when loading resources. 
*Fixed a bug where players on the manage members screen are not updated when returning from "Find friends".
*Improved feedback to user when Realm uploads fail due to naming.
*The item currently selected inside a Bundle is now correctly displayed as part of the bundle's icon when the Bundle is placed in the inventory or crafting table's crafting grid.
*Fixed a visual glitch which could occur when navigating between the death screen and game menu.
*Fixed a bug where the chat button on the experimental bed screen could be focused when not being visible in certain scenarios (''Preview'' only).
*Fixed a bug where the chat button would be incorrectly shown on the new bed screen when the {{cd|playerssleepingpercentage}} game rule was set to above 100 in certain scenarios (''Preview'' only).
*Fixed an issue that caused the export as template functionality to generate invalid mctemplate UUIDs.
*Fixed soft-lock UI bug when an expired Realm was deleted.
*Fixed TextureSets for multi-textured mobs, such as llamas in the Deferred Technical Preview.
*Fixed the orientation of normal maps for mobs on Android in the Deferred Technical Preview.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.50 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.50.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.50.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.50.20]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.50.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.50.20]]