{{Dangerous version|The game could get stuck at 66% when loading at launch. This was fixed in [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.71]].<ref>{{bug|MCPE-168284||Game will not open- stuck at 66% on loading screen after update to 1.19.70}}</ref>
| type = soft-lock
| edition=bedrock
| version=release
}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.19.70
| vernum = 1.19.70
| server = 1.19.70.02
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.7002.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.7002.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire, ChromeOS''': 1.19.70.02<br>'''Nintendo Switch''': v76<br>'''PlayStation 4''': 2.59
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
951907002 (armeabi-v7a, 33)<br>
961907002 (x86, 33)<br>
971907002 (arm64-v8a, 33)<br>
981907002 (x86_64, 33)
| image = Bedrock 1.19.70 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.70.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = 
| date = '''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Windows, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4''': March 14, 2023<br>'''Fire, ChromeOS''': March 15, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.19.70.02.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.19.70.02.zip Linux]
| prevparent = 1.19.0
| prev = 1.19.63
| next = 1.19.71
| nextparent = 1.20.0
}}

'''1.19.70''' is an minor update to {{BE}} which released on March 14–15, 2023. It added more experimental feature toggles, increased parity with {{JE}}, and fixed bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/13857979785613|title=Minecraft - 1.19.70 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 14, 2023}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/documents/update1.19.70?view=minecraft-bedrock-stable|title=Minecraft Bedrock 1.19.70 Update Notes for Creators|website=Microsoft Learn|date=July 22, 2025}}</ref> It's also the first version to have ChromeOS support, described as "early access".<ref>{{cite|url=https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-launching-chromebook|title=Minecraft is launching on Chromebook|website=Minecraft.net|date=March 15, 2023}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Experiments]]'''
* Added the "Sniffer" experimental toggle.
** Enables all sniffer-related features.
*** The [[sniffer]], [[torchflower]]s, and [[torchflower seeds]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[End Crystal]]'''
* Increased end crystal collision box size to match {{JE}}.
* End crystals with obsidian or bedrock below them now will not damage blocks below them when they explode.

'''[[Hopper]]'''
* Hoppers can now collect items through all blocks that have a lower height than a full block.

'''[[Vines]]'''
* Now drop nothing when mined with [[Silk Touch]] enchanted tools except shears. 

'''[[Wool]]'''
* The ID's of <code>wool</code> have now been split up into their own ID's.

{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="16" | {{BlockSprite|wool}} <code>wool</code>
| {{BlockSprite|white-wool}} <code>white_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|orange-wool}} <code>orange_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|magenta-wool}} <code>magenta_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|light-blue-wool}} <code>light_blue_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|yellow-wool}} <code>yellow_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|lime-wool}} <code>lime_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|pink-wool}} <code>pink_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|gray-wool}} <code>gray_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|light-gray-wool}} <code>light_gray_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cyan-wool}} <code>cyan_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|purple-wool}} <code>purple_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|blue-wool}} <code>blue_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|brown-wool}} <code>brown_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|green-wool}} <code>green_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|red-wool}} <code>red_wool</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|black-wool}} <code>black_wool</code>
|}

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|clone}}, {{cmd|fill}} and {{cmd|setblock}}'''
* Removed <code>tileData: int</code> argument.

'''{{cmd|execute}}'''
* Removed <code>data: int</code> argument.

'''{{cmd|summon}}'''
* Re-added rotation arguments for the {{cmd|summon|link=none}} command.
** New syntax: {{cmd|summon <entityType: EntityType> [spawnPos: x y z] [yRot: value] [xRot: value] [spawnEvent: string] [nameTag: string]}}
** Previous syntax: {{cmd|summon <entityType: EntityType> [spawnPos: x y z] [spawnEvent: string] [nameTag: string]}}

'''{{cmd|testforblock}}'''
* Removed <code>dataValue: int</code> argument.

==== [[Target selectors]] ====
* Selecting targets by volume will now select all entities whose hitbox collides with the volume box.
* Volume arguments no longer floor the selector's position.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Horse]] breeding'''
* When breeding horses, the baby horse now has a chance of being better than its parents in speed, jump strength, and health.
** This change is intended to make horse breeding a viable way of getting great horses, if a player starts with good parents and puts in enough time and [[golden carrot]]s.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Zombified Piglin]]'''
* Now spawn at light levels of 11 and below.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Next Major Update" and "Sniffer" experimental toggle.
=== Additions ===
{{Additions table
|Decorated Pot
|Suspicious Sand
|Torchflower
|Brush
|Sniffer Spawn Egg Revision 1
|title=1.19.70 experimental
}}
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Decorated Pot]]'''
* Can be crafted with any 4 pottery shards or [[brick]] items, shaped rhombic.
** The type of crafting material decides which picture would occur on the certain side of the crafted decorated pot.
*** The possible pictures are decided by the type of pottery shard which is used to craft.
*** The brick item will not have a picture.
* Very fragile, and very easy to break it:
** Will break apart into its crafting materials when breaking it using any block-breaking tool.
** Will drop itself when breaking it using empty hand.

'''[[Suspicious Sand]]'''
* Generates in [[desert pyramid]]s and [[desert well]]s.
* Brushing the suspicious sand with a brush will extract objects.

'''[[Torchflower]]'''
* A new type of flower, grows from torchflower seeds.
** Only drop itself when broken.
** Can be crafted into a [[orange dye]].
** Can be planted in the [[flower pot]].

==== Items ====
'''[[Brush]]'''
* An item which can be used to brush things.
* Can be crafted with 3 [[string]] and 2 [[stick]]s, like the shape of crafting [[pickaxe]]s.

'''[[Pottery Shard]]'''
* They have pictures on them.
* They cannot be crafted and are only found by brushing suspicious sand.

'''[[Spawn Egg]]'''
* Added sniffer spawn egg.

'''[[Torchflower Seeds]]'''
* A new type of seed, which can be planted on [[farmland]] and grows into a torchflower.
* Can only be obtained if a sniffer digs up a torchflower seed.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Sniffer]]'''
* A new passive friendly mob, which is the mob vote winner of [[Minecraft Live 2022]], and considered as the first "ancient" mob.
* Cannot spawn naturally.
* Cannot be tempted or tamed.
* Often sniff in the air and occasionally dig for torchflower seeds.
* Can be bred with torchflower seeds.
* Drop [[moss block]] when killed.

=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Bamboo Fence]]s and [[Bamboo Fence Gate]]s'''
* Removed black lines along the edges of Bamboo Fences and Bamboo Fence Gates. ({{bug|MCPE-163360}})

'''[[Bamboo Hanging Sign]] and [[Mangrove Hanging Sign]]'''
* Mangrove and Bamboo Hanging Signs are now placed correctly in the creative inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-163340}})

'''[[Head]]s'''
* Piglin Head Blocks rendered in the hotbar or inventory no longer have the ear overlapping the rest of the head. ({{bug|MCPE-164605}})
* Piglin and Dragon Head blocks no longer animate in the hotbar or inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-164535}}, {{bug|MCPE-32654}})

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Camel]]'''
* Players can now receive damage when falling while riding a camel.
* Camels can once again overcome obstacles as high as one block and a half. ({{bug|MCPE-166452}})

==== World generation ====
'''[[Desert Pyramid]]'''
* Now includes a new room filled with [[sand]] and [[suspicious sand]].
* Some sands will appear exposed, and can be found at the same height as the [[blue terracotta]].

'''[[Desert Well]]'''
* Now includes suspicious sands under its water.

== Fixes ==

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Bells that are connected to multiple blocks no longer drop when one block is broken.
* Breeding horses can now produce random variants. ({{bug|MCPE-129071}})
* Fixed an issue where dead players prevented other players from skipping night.
* Eating and drinking animations will now always be centered, regardless of screen aspect ratio.
* Note Block sound attenuation over a distance is now linear. ({{bug|MCPE-164935}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Players no longer take rapid damage when touching damaging blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-165347}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when entering a 1.7.1.0 world in 1.8 or above. ({{bug|MCPE-165564}})
* Projectiles shot while swimming/gliding no longer spawn from above the player's position. ({{bug|MCPE-31896}})
* Items dropped while swimming/gliding, manually or on death, no longer spawn from above the player's position. ({{bug|MCPE-31896}})
* The player's crosshair now properly mines/interacts with items in front of them while swimming/gliding, rather than 1 block above their position. ({{bug|MCPE-57257}})
* Written Books can now be moved in the inventory even when the player has identical Written Books.
* Double-clicking on the Furnace output slot will no longer drop the item ({{bug|MCPE-165079}}).
* Fixed a bug where Observers would not detect changes due to corrupted data. ({{bug|MCPE-150506}})

'''Blocks'''
* Destroying Mangrove Log or Mangrove Wood now properly cause leaves to decay.
* End Crystals occupying the same space as a block will no longer cause that block to disappear.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed an issue where the "Mine" tooltip was appearing when targeting a block with a Trident in Creative game mode. ({{bug|MCPE-44846}})

'''Mobs'''
* Parrots will no longer shake while on a player riding a Horse that is turning mid-jump.
* Fixed a bug causing global entities (e.g. Ender Dragon and projectiles) to stop rendering when out of normal entity render distance. ({{bug|MCPE-161136}})

'''Touch Controls'''
* Updated the How to Play screen with info on new touch controls.
* Changing input modes from Gamepad to Touch while an item is selected will return the selected to the inventory or drop it.
* Fixed an issue on the Furnace screen where double-tapping the output window caused other slots to become unselectable.
* Fixed a bug where progressive select was automatically initiated on the first slot when opening a small Chest.

'''Mobile'''
* When starting a new world in Pocket UI, removed the "Press Open Chat to open chat" message for players with text-to-speech turned off.

'''User Interface'''
* Ocean Explorer, Woodland Explorer, and Treasure Maps now show the proper icon in the inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-163464}})
* Fixed a bug where mouse scrolling on the Friend Options dropdown would not scroll the dropdown contents.
* Resolved an issue where graphical elements of the Sign-In/Sign-Up screen could extend beyond the bounds of the dialog container.

'''Commands'''
* {{cmd|replaceitem}} and {{cmd|loot replace block}} commands no longer place items in Cauldrons. ({{bug|MCPE-129472}})
* Rotation in the teleport command is now relative to the executor of the command instead of the target. Old usage of rotations in commands will stay relative to the target mob for backwards compatibility.

'''Technical'''
* Tropical Fish spawn rules .json file is now located in the correct folder. ({{bug|MCPE-165963}})
* Witch potion drinking and ranged attack behaviour is now defined in its .json file.

'''Creative'''
* The game will no longer create a content error when Bee spawn eggs are used on a Spawner.
* Behavior packs with scripts can now be removed from worlds.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.19.70]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.19.70]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.19.70]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.19.70]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.70]]