{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.230.54.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.23054.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.23054.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.230.54<br>
|parent=1.17.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' April 8, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.221
|prev=beta 1.16.230.52
|next=beta 1.16.230.56
|nextparent=1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.230.54''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.16.230 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0|1.17.0]].<ref>{{tweet|CornerHardMC|1397616108056707072|Correct, no 1.16.230|May 26, 2021}}</ref>}} released on April 8, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360059595471|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.230.54 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 08, 2021}}</ref> which makes changes and tweaks to the [[Caves & Cliffs]] features, and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Azalea]] and [[Flowering Azalea]]'''
* Azalea and flowering azalea can now be grown into an azalea tree when using bone meal.

'''[[Coal Ore]], [[Diamond Ore]], [[Gold Ore]], [[Iron Ore]], [[Lapis Ore]]'''
* The textures of these ores have been changed.
** Iron ore no longer has streaks, better matching the appearance of other ores.
** Diamond ore closer resembles deepslate diamond ore.

'''[[Dripleaf]]'''
* Breaking a dripleaf stem now drops a dripleaf item, matching ''Java Edition''.
* Small dripleaf can now be composted.

'''[[Glow Lichen]]'''
* Glow lichen can now appear on the walls of underground water lakes.  

'''[[Moss Block]]'''
* Moss can now also spread vertically when using bone meal.
* Applying [[bone meal]] to a moss block can also grow vegetation on existing moss blocks.

'''[[Pointed Dripstone]]'''
* Water and lava now drip more often from pointed dripstone.

'''[[Powder Snow]]'''
* Powder snow’s hardness was slightly increased, from 0.1 to 0.25.
* Freeze time has decreased to 7 seconds and hurt frequency has decreased to 2 seconds.
* Entities on fire now melt powder snow when colliding.
* Increased vertical movement speed within powder snow (entities fall through powder snow faster).
* Mobs now shake when they are fully frozen.
* Entities wearing leather boots falling from a height of > 2.5 blocks sink into powder snow instead of landing on top of it. 
* Applied fog effect while standing close outside a powder snow block.

'''[[Structure Block]]'''
* Added placement animation options in Load Mode, similar to the {{cmd|structure}} functionality.
** There are three animation mode options: None, Place by Layer, and Place by Block.
** These animations can be adjusted by time in seconds.

=== Items ===
'''[[Leather Horse Armor]]'''
* Now protects [[horse]]s from freeze damage.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Blaze]], [[magma cube]], and [[strider]]'''
* Now take more damage from [[powder snow#Freezing|freezing]].

'''[[Polar bear]], [[snow golem]], and [[stray]]'''
* Are now immune to freezing.

'''[[Wandering trader]]'''
* Added the following trades to the wandering trader:
** Sells 2 [[pointed dripstone]]s for an emerald.
** Sells 2 [[rooted dirt]] for an emerald.
** Sells 2 [[moss block]]s for an emerald.
** Sells 2 [[small dripleaf]]s for an emerald.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Mason villagers can now sell 4 [[dripstone block]]s for an [[emerald]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Cave]]s'''
* Dripstone and [[dripstone cluster]]s can now be found rarely in regular caves below Y=59.

'''[[Mineshaft]]s'''
* [[Glow berries]] can be found in mineshaft [[chest]] minecarts.

'''[[Shipwreck]]s'''
* [[Moss block]]s can be found in supply chests.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Chat]]'''
* Added a warning message when attempting to place blocks at the minimum height limit.

=== Technical ===
'''GameTest Framework'''
* Updated interfaces: 
** <code>assertContainerContains</code>
*** ItemIdentifier parameter changed to ItemStack.
** <code>assertItemEntityNotPresent</code> and <code>assertItemEntityPresent APIs</code>
*** ItemStack parameter changed to ItemType.
* Added new interfaces: 
** <code>assertEntityNotTouching(entityIdentifier: string, position : Location)</code>
*** Asserts that there is no entity of the given type at the given position.
** <code>assertEntityTouching(entityIdentifier: string, position : Location)</code>
*** Asserts that there is an entity of the given type at the given position.
** <code>assertItemEntityCountIs(itemType : ItemType, position : BlockLocation, searchDistance : number, count : number)</code>
*** Asserts that the entity item count in the given search area matches the expected count.
** <code>pulseRedstone(position : BlockLocation, duration : number)</code>
*** Creates a redstone block at the given position and destroys it after "duration" ticks.

== Fixes ==
'''Caves & Cliffs'''
* Leads now correctly attach to axolotl.
* There are no longer any unknown items in the creative inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-119503}})
* Cobbled deepslate is now next to cobblestone in the Creative inventory. Polished deepslate is next to deepslate.
* Deepslate bricks now have correct breaktime.
* Fixed pointed dripstone texture mapping.
* The game no longer crashes when placing glow lichen on all sides of a single block.
* Hanging roots now drop correctly when mined by Silk Touch enchanted tool.
* Dripleaves now break completely when the leaf part is broken. ({{bug|MCPE-121804}})
* Applying bone meal to moss blocks no longer generates ferns. ({{bug|MCPE-122800}})

'''Striders '''
* Striders shake properly when out of lava again. ({{bug|MCPE-69511}})

'''General'''
* Fixed a bug where if the view bobbing setting was disabled, the player's hand would still bob. ({{bug|MCPE-79380}})
* Zombie villagers properly shake while being cured.
* Fixed player spawning in unsafe locations when entering a random world for the first time. ({{bug|MCPE-42310}})

'''Commands '''
* Fix output message for {{cmd|stopsound}} being incorrect. ({{bug|MCPE-116772}})

'''Graphical '''
* Charged creeper aura is rendered correctly in most cases now. ({{bug|MCPE-65798}})
* Fixed paintings no longer rendering.
* Ray tracing specific textures are allocated/deallocated when toggling ray tracing on/off.

'''Items '''
* Switching between some items (bow, trident, crossbow, shield) in your main hand no longer skips animation. ({{bug|MCPE-116680}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Underwater visibility has been improved.
* Underwater color has been tuned to better match ''Java Edition'' with a richer blue tint.

'''User Interface'''
* A message now displays when trying to place blocks below the minimum build height.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
<references group="fn"/>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.54]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.54]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.230.54]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.230.54]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.230.54 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.230.54]]