{{Infobox version
| title = v1.21.51
| edition = Bedrock
| image = Bedrock 1.21.51.png
| build = 29753108
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.5101.0<br>'''ChromeOS, Android (Original), iOS, iPadOS, Fire''': 1.21.51.01<br>'''Android (Reupload)''': 1.21.51.02<br>'''PlayStation 4''': 3.04<br>'''PlayStation 5''': 1.011.000<br>'''Nintendo Switch''': v115
| editorver = 0.8.0
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952105101 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br>
962105101 (x86, 34)<br>
972105101 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br>
982105101 (x86_64, 34)<br>
'''Android reupload''':<br>
972105102 (arm64-v8a, 34)
| server = [[Bedrock Dedicated Server 1.21.51.01|1.21.51.01]]<br />[[Bedrock Dedicated Server 1.21.51.02|1.21.51.02]]
| serverdl = '''Server (Original)'''<br>
[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.21.51.01.zip Windows]<br>
[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.21.51.01.zip Linux]<br>
'''Server (Reupload)'''<br>
[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.21.51.02.zip Windows]<br>
[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.21.51.02.zip Linux]
| date = '''December 9, 2024:'''<br>ChromeOS, Android (Original)<br>'''December 10, 2024:'''<br>iOS, iPadOS, Fire<br>'''December 11, 2024:'''<br>Windows, Xbox, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Android (Reupload)<br>'''December 16, 2024:'''<br>Nintendo Switch
| prevparent = 1.21.50
| prev =
| next = 1.21.60
| nextparent = 1.21.70
}}

'''1.21.51''' is a hotfix to ''[[Bedrock Edition]]'' released on December 9, 2024 for ChromeOS and Android, December 10 for iOS, iPadOS, and Fire, December 11 for all other platforms, and December 16 for Nintendo Switch. It fixes bugs and introduces a new Play screen.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/32611282671245-Minecraft-1-21-51-Bedrock|title=Minecraft - 1.21.51 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 11, 2024}}</ref> It is compatible with [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50|1.21.50]] servers. This is the final version released in 2024.

This version was reuploaded on Android on December 11 with the internal version number '''1.21.51.02''' to re-enable [[RenderDragon]] for ARMv8 devices after it had been mistakenly disabled in the original release.

== Changes ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[Pale Garden]]'''
* [[Creaking Heart]]s now generate more often in naturally generated [[Pale Oak]]s.

=== General ===
'''[[Select World#Bedrock Edition|Play Screen]]'''
* A new "Play screen" is now introduced which includes the following tabs:
** Worlds tab: Access saved local and LAN worlds
** Realms tab: Access Realms you own or have joined
** Servers tab: Join multiplayer [[featured servers]], and add or access custom servers
** Create from template: Create from, and rate, your owned templates, and view [[Marketplace]] content
** Friends: Connect with friends (they now live in the top right hand corner of the screen)
* {{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/32611282671245-Minecraft-1-21-51-Bedrock#:~:text=These%20updates%20are%20being%20rolled%20out%20incrementally%2C%20so%20they%20might%20not%20be%20available%20right%20away.|title=These updates are being rolled out incrementally, so they might not be available right away.}}

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.51 Hotfix
|;old
|187337|Generated Pale Oak trees with Creaking Hearts are rarer than in Java Edition
|188547|Magma Cube texture broken with some marketplace resource packs
|otherissuescount=3}}
'''Other'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed an issue where some shaped recipes weren't parsing properly.
* Fixed an issue where legacy data driven block didn't apply the render layer from the material instances component.

== Known issues ==
* When playing [[Hardcore]] worlds on a [[Realm]], the world tag currently shows [[Survival]] instead of Hardcore.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.21.51]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.21.51]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.21.51]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.21.51]]
[[ru:1.21.51 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:1.21.51 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.51]]