{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0.05}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.5.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.5.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.5<br>
|image=Bedrock 1.13.0.5.png
|parent=1.13.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10:''' August 7, 2019<br>'''Android:''' August 12, 2019
|prevparent=1.12.1
|prev=beta 1.13.0.4
|next=beta 1.13.0.6
|nextparent=1.13.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.5''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]], released on August 7–12, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360031774332-Minecraft-Beta-1-13-0-5-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.5 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=August 7, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay. 
* Fixed a crash on Xbox One that could sometimes occur when signing out of an Xbox Live account.
* Fixed an issue that could sometimes result in the app not responding when loading on Android.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when interacting with custom entities.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after sleeping in a bed. 
* Applying a resource pack to a Realm no longer causes the game to freeze.

'''Performance'''
* Optimized game loading on Android devices, which also fixes the game sometimes showing an “App Not Responding” message when trying to launch the game.

'''General'''
* VR - When the player goes to sleep and wakes up in immersion mode, the HUD is now positioned correctly, and axe animations work again.
* Tweaked the Marketplace layout to prevent overlapping information.
* Controller mapping no longer shows incorrectly as "unassigned".

'''Gameplay'''
* Armor, weapons, and tools are once again suggested in the recipe book.
* Mobs once again drop equipment as loot. ({{bug|MCPE-48891}})
* Fixed an issue with breaking blocks when boarding a boat or holding a bow or crossbow.
* Mobs no longer drop fully repaired items as loot. ({{bug|MCPE-45953}})
* End gateway portals no longer generate on the main obsidian platform in the End.
* Arrows are no longer fired backwards when shooting at the ground.
* Leaves on trees no longer get cut off on chunk boundaries during terrain generation.
* Players can no longer push lit TNT entities.

'''Mobs'''
* Dolphins now follow players in boats.
* Fish and dolphins with 'FollowFlock' goal state no longer stop moving in the water. ({{bug|MCPE-47868}})
* Fixed fishing float texture. ({{bug|MCPE-49727}})
* Fixed elytra left wing flipped model issue. ({{bug|MCPE-49589}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed the arm movement animation when switching between items in first person view. ({{bug|MCPE-47939}})
* Fixed the player missing right arm issue in VR mode.

'''User interface'''
* Resized the highlighted area in the create world menu, which was slightly too big.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Fixed player entity components (eg. {{code|minecraft:damage_sensor}}) that were not getting added.
* Fixed dog fetching mechanic on Dogs Marketplace content.
* Custom player armor now renders correctly in some Marketplace content worlds.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.5]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.5]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.5]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.5]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 베타 1.13.0.5]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.5]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.5 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.5]]