{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.0.6
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = July 30, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.110.22|1.21.110.22]]
| prevparent = 1.0.0
| prev = 1.0.5
| next = 1.0.7
| nextparent = 1.1.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.0.6''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on July 30, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/254|title=Release 1.0.6 (1.21.110.22)|website=GitHub|date=July 30, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/38434933991821-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-110-22|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.110.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=July 30, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added weights to control points on the Line Tool to now linearly transition a Line's thickness from one point to the next.
* Added a button on the Structure Panel to let you update an existing selected structure with one from the clipboard.
* Added clear button for Vector3 input fields.
* Added {{cd|IComboBoxPropertyItemEntry}} API type for {{cd|IComboBoxPropertyItem}} entries. Each entry now can support a localized label.
* Added a progress modal when toggling Vibrant Visuals during the graphics mode change.

== Changes ==
* Updated expand/collapse indicator of drawer panels to be interactive for keyboard only navigation.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug that caused text field clear button to overlap with inner contents.
* Fixed block inspector failing silently in unloaded areas.
* Fixed the issue where entity type names were not localized for summon tool.
* Fixed a bug that caused Export pane data to be incorrect when the reset button is pressed.
* Fixed a bug that caused Farm tool settings to reset when another player joins.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.0.6]]
[[uk:1.0.6 (Bedrock Editor)]]