{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.200.56.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.20056.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.20056.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.200.56<br>
|build=5005662
|parent=1.16.200
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' November 18, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.101
|prev=beta 1.16.200.55
|next=beta 1.16.200.57
|nextparent=1.16.201
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.200.56''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.200]], released on November 18, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url= https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360052266712|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.200.56 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 18, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''Technical '''
* Added a limit to how many log messages could be processed to the GUI per frame to prevent delay on load.

== Fixes ==
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* [[Basalt]] can no longer be destroyed by [[Ghast]] fireballs. ({{bug|MCPE-75252}}).
* Basalt blocks now take slightly more time to destroy.
* [[Dragon Egg]] now always drops as an item when it's destroyed by an explosion. ({{bug|MCPE-52632}}).

'''General'''
* The [[Cape#Character creator capes|Founder's Cape]] will now show up within the capes tab of the dressing room again if owned by user.
* Fixed a server/client desync with blocks when using the {{cmd|fill}} command at the edge of render distance.
* If available GPU memory cannot be queried, the maximum render chunk distance will now default to 16.
* Fixed an issue that caused a crash on Nintendo Switch when trying to load a 256x resolution resource pack.
** The system now blocks that selection and notifies the player they cannot select it.

'''Technical'''
* Fixed some culling issues with data-driven blocks larger than 1x1x1 when placed on a chunk boundary. Also added content warnings for larger blocks.
* Fixed custom spawn egg generation in template worlds.
* Fixed player smaller hitbox while swimming and gliding from being reset after an event is sent on the player.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.200.56]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.200.56]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.200.56]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.200.56]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.200.56 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Beta 1.16.200.56 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.200.56]]