{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.30.21 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.30.21.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.3021.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.3021.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.30.21
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - August 10, 2022
| parent = 1.19.30
| prevparent = 1.19.22
| prev = Preview 1.19.30.20
| next = Preview 1.19.30.22
| nextparent = 1.19.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.30.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.30.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.30]], released on August 10, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/8316873349901|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.30.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 10, 2022}}</ref> which added keyboard shortcuts for copying coordinates, and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Control]]s'''
* Added keyboard shortcuts that allow players to copy either their current coordinates or the coordinates of a block.
** {{keys|Ctrl}} + {{keys|Alt}} + {{keys|C}} is the default for copying current coordinates.
** {{keys|Ctrl}} + {{keys|Alt}} + {{keys|X}} is the default for copying coordinates of selected block.
** Needs the "Enable Copy Coordinate UI" enabled in Creator settings.

== Fixes ==
'''Spectator Mode (Experimental)'''
* Parrots sitting on a player's shoulder now hop off when entering Spectator Mode.
* Animals and mobs with {{cd|follow_owner}} behavior no longer follow Spectators.
* Animals and mobs with {{cd|find_mount}} behavior no longer try to mount Spectators.
* Spectator Mode players won't have cold feet and now the Frost Walker enchant does not affect water.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue where light blocks would be removed when placing an armor stand over them. ({{bug|MCPE-151856}})

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed hoglin and zoglin hitbox size and hit range to match Java Edition. ({{bug|MCPE-65424}})

'''Commands'''
* Changed some structure's names in the {{cmd|locate}} command to have underscores, like in {{el|je}} (e.g. ancientcity -> ancient_city); the old names will still work but will not show up in the autocomplete.

'''Gameplay'''
* Added a waterlog field to the {{cmd|structure}} command and the load tab of structure blocks to allow players to properly waterlog a structure when it's being placed under water.
* Pressing the {{keys|Ctrl}} and {{keys|Alt}} keys together will no longer make the {{keys|Alt}} key get stuck down.

'''Items'''
* Iron bars are no longer missing from the Creative Mode inventory and are once again accessible through commands. ({{bug|MCPE-160253}})
* White glazed terracotta is no longer missing from the Creative Mode inventory and is once again accessible through commands.

'''Marketplace'''
* Character Creator offers in the Marketplace will no longer lose their thumbnail images upon exiting the Dressing Room.

'''User Interface'''
* Added a Retry button to Xbox cloud sync prompt.
* Seagrass and kelp are no longer classified as Coral Decorations in the Creative Mode inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-44034}})
* When on fire, the fire overlay no longer clips through held items. ({{bug|MCPE-147776}})

'''Stability and Performance'''
* The game no longer crashes when browsing Marketplace.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.30.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.30.21]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.30.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.30.21]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.30.21]]