{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=DripstoneSculk1.16.210.56.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.210.56 PatchNotes.jpg
|image3=Bedrock 1.16.210.56.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21056.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21056.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.56<br>
|build=5257133
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' January 20, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=beta 1.16.210.55
|next=beta 1.16.210.57
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.56''' is the sixth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on January 20, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360055733571|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.56 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 20, 2021}}</ref> which added [[pointed dripstone]] and [[sculk sensor]], and fixes bugs.<ref>{{Mcnet|dripstone-block---sculk-sensor-bedrock-beta|Dripstone Block & Sculk Sensor in Bedrock Beta|20 Jan 2021}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Particle]]s'''
* New particle types: {{cd|vibration_signal}} and {{cd|sculk_sensor_redstone_particle}}

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Loading tips]]'''
* Added a new loading tip:
** "Playing on iOS, Android, or FireOS? Get the free Minecraft Original Music Pack from the Marketplace for the full Minecraft experience."

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "[[Caves & Cliffs]]" experimental toggles.
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Pointed Dripstone]] '''
* Does not generate anywhere currently, is only available from the creative inventory.
* Can be placed on the floor or ceiling, creating stalagmites or stalactites respectively.
** Can be combined to form longer stalactites and stalagmites.
* Stalagmites break if not attached to something below, and hurt [[entity|entities]] which fall on top of them.
** Enemies that fall on the stalagmites deal three times more fall damage
* Stalactites fall if unsupported, and hurt entities they fall on.

'''[[Sculk Sensor]]'''
* A new redstone component.
* Detects vibrations, and emits a redstone signal.
* Will emit a different strength if connected to a [[Redstone Comparator|comparator]], and the signal strength is based on the vibration's frequency.
* Currently can only be obtained via the [[creative inventory]] or commands such as {{cmd|give}}.

== Fixes ==
'''General '''
* Fixed Pork Chop achievement and trophy being unlocked by raw porkchop ({{bug|MCPE-95446}})  
* Fixed a bug where foxes wouldn't knock off and eat sweet berries ({{bug|MCPE-70790}})  
* Clicking "Download Template" when missing required templates of an existing world now correctly downloads the required templates  
* Fixed bug that allowed players to place custom spawn eggs by default in Adventure mode  

'''Commands '''
* The {{cmd|setblock}} command now supports setting the connected state for the soul_lantern block ({{bug|MCPE-89609)}}  
* The {{cmd|setblock}} command now supports setting the rotation state for the chain block ({{bug|MCPE-105912}})  
* 'SetBlock' and 'SetBlockAtPos' events now support custom block states  

'''Blocks '''
* Fix for certain Marketplace worlds having incorrect block data when played on Realms and multiplayer between mobile and PC    

'''World Generation '''
* Mcstructure files saved with entities no longer crash game when loaded into the world ({{bug|MCPE-63387}})

'''Technical'''
* A boolean parameter called "ignore_game_mode" is added for the block event response "decrement_stack", set to false by default. Thus "decrement_stack" no longer decreases the item stack when playing in Creative by default.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.56]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.56]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.56]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.56]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.56 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.56]]