{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.11.0.5.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.11.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>March 14, 2019
|prevparent=1.10.1
|prev=beta 1.11.0.4
|next=beta 1.11.0.7
|nextparent=1.11.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.11.0.5''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0]], released on March 14, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360025031632|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.11.0.5 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 14, 2019}}</ref> which changes some textures and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Text to Speech now reads all dialog boxes and in-game notifications.

'''[[Raid]]s'''
* If all [[villager]]s are killed or if all [[bed]]s are destroyed during a raid, all players in the village now receive [[Bad Omen]].

'''[[Texture Update]]'''
* Added even more new textures to blocks and items, such as [[stained glass]], [[grass block]]s, and [[status effect]] icons.

'''User interface'''
* Changed the user interface background from gray to transparent black.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when importing a 1.10 beta world with Experimental Gameplay disabled.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when villagers died.

'''Raids'''
* Removed the placeholder explosion sound when a raid ends. 
* A directional horn sound now plays to help find remaining raiders. 
* Fixed the boss bar not emptying when a raid wave was completed. 
* Fixed raids not starting on Android devices.
* Raids no longer break when switching to Peaceful difficulty, then back to Normal.
* Raiding mobs now attack players that attack them.
* Raiding mobs now move through water to get to a village. 
* Raiding mobs can no longer spawn on leaves. 
* Ravagers can now spawn with evokers riding them during raids. 
* Witches now have a higher priority to move into villages during raids.
* Removed particles around players that have Hero of the Village.
* Improved spawn locations of mobs during raids.

'''General'''
* Text to Speech audio prompts no longer overlap one other.
* Text to Speech now properly reads controller bindings.  

'''World generation'''
* Fences generated in water in villages are now surrounded with water. 
* Trees no longer spawn one block above the ground in village animal pens. 

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed some sleepwalking villagers.
* Mobs can now path their way through waterlogged blocks, such as seagrass. ({{bug|MCPE-37005}})
* Wither skeletons and guardians once again spawn in the world. ({{bug|MCPE-42922}})
* Updated supply values for various villager trades.
* Wandering traders no longer change their offers after exiting and re-entering a world. 
* Iron golems that spawn in a village now retaliate against attacking players.
* Improved ravager pathfinding. 
* Villagers now take breaks every once in a while.
* Pillagers no longer float in mid-air after killing a ravager with a riding pillager. 

'''Blocks'''
* XP can now be stored for auto smelters using blast furnaces and smokers.
* TNT once again launches away from an explosion. ({{bug|MCPE-42731}})
* Added a placeholder sound for villagers interacting with the fletching table. 
* Happy villager particles now appear over a job site block when it is claimed by a villager or angry particles when a villager cannot reach the block. 

'''Items'''
* Maps once again show underwater terrain differences. ({{bug|MCPE-40740}})

'''User interface'''
* The output slot of the cartography table no longer overlaps the text field with Pocket UI on Android devices. 
* Selecting a trade on the left side of the trading screen with a controller now completes a trade. 
* The outline of the saddle item on the horse inventory screen now matches the new saddle texture. 
* Fixed the lack of controller tooltip for interacting with the lectern. 
* The loom screen now displays banner patterns correctly when using HD texture packs. 
* Fixed overlapping boss bars when using touch devices. 
* Trades no longer auto-populate the trade input slot.
* Villager trades that are locked no longer appear until the villager levels up.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.5]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.5]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.11.0.5]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.5]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.11.0.5]]
[[ru:Beta 1.11.0.5 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.0.5]]