{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.9.5
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date =
;Preview: April 8, 2025
;Stable: May 6, 2025
| client =
;Preview: [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.80.27|Preview 1.21.80.27]]
;Stable: [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.80|1.21.80]]
| prevparent = 0.9.0
| prev = 0.9.4
| next = 0.9.6
| nextparent = 1.0.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.9.5''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on April 8, 2025, which fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/232|title=Release 0.9.5 (1.21.80.27)|website=GitHub|date=April 8, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/35680472765325-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-80-27|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.80.27|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 8, 2025}}</ref> It was released to [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.80|stable 1.21.80]] on May 6, 2025.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/237</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added an animation on the viewport and opening the log panel when an error is logged.
* Added an indicator to the 3D Block Cursor to show the face that the mouse is pointing at.
* Added a new tutorial flow which can be activated from Help menu.

== Changes ==
* Capped some of the brush volume max sizes so that they don't exceed our max voxel count for selection operations
* Re-organized core modal tools in tool rail.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug where moving a structure to the clipboard while in Paste Preview (with no actual active clipboard) did not update the clipboard client widget.
* Fixed some bugs around freehand selection with very large volumes.
* Fixed a bug where a number of script widget errors would fire when entering The Nether as the startup dimension at Editor open.
* Fixed a bug that caused mouse cursor to be released when changing to Crosshair mode.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.9.5]]
[[ru:0.9.5 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.9.5 (Bedrock Editor)]]