{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.5.0.10.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' June 6, 2018
|parent=1.5.0
|prevparent=1.4.4
|prev=beta 1.5.0.7
|nextparent=1.5.1
|sort=beta 1.5.0.9a <!-- so it sorts after build 9 -->
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.5.0.10''' is the fifth and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.5.0]], released on June 6, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004563092|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.5.0.10 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)}}</ref> which fixes several crashes and bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
* Added a new pop-up window asking the [[player]] if they are enjoying ''Minecraft''.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Reorganized buttons.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several of the top crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when placing sea turtle eggs into the inventory.
* Entities no longer become invisible based on the position of the observing player.
* Improved performance around ocean monuments on Android devices.
* Players will no longer gradually drift up or down when swimming straight ahead.
* Fixed some Update Aquatic sound effects not playing on low memory devices.
* Flowing water now angles properly when flowing down.
* Flowing water touching Stairs that contains a water source no longer causes water to flow from the solid face of the stairs.
* Fixed rendering issues with flowing water and flowing lava.
* Lava will now render when the player's perspective is right below the surface.
* Fixed blocks that were removed underwater not creating source water blocks.
* Dropped items no longer float against the water current.
* Tridents no longer disappear when they hit armor stands.
* Bubble columns now reappear quickly if they were blocked by a solid block.
* Decreased the time it takes to break coral fans in Survival.
* Rain no longer severely limits view distance.
* The drinking sound is no longer played twice when drinking a potion or milk.
* Guardians once again spawn in valid water source blocks.
* The Mob Griefing game rule now converts properly from Console Edition worlds.
* Powered observers now convert properly from Console Edition worlds.
* Fire Resistance once again protects players from blaze ranged attacks.
* Decreased the damage given by standing in lava when armor with Fire Protection and Protection enchantments is equipped.
* Protection enchantments once again protects players from all types of damage.
* Special symbols in a player’s nickname no longer cause a syntax error when trying to teleport that player from the Host Options tab
* Woodland explorer maps once again point players correctly to woodland mansions.
* Pumpkins are now consumed when creating an iron golem.
* Top snow falling on a snow block no longer loses one layer.
* Fixed an issue with saved worlds not syncing properly between Xbox One consoles.
* Increased the durability of sea turtle eggs when items are dropped on them.
* Zombies and Drowned no longer jitter while jumping on sea turtle eggs.
* Drowned will once again leave water to attack player at night.
* Ice placed on magma blocks in the Nether no longer create water source blocks when melted.
* Hay bales now have the correct bottom texture when held or seen in item frames.
* Arrows of the Turtle Master now apply the proper Resistance level to the target.
* Active conduits no longer have a black texture surrounding them on some devices.
* Fixed players losing ownership of tamed animals after updating to the latest beta version.
* Fixed the sneak control not exiting a boat when using keyboard/mouse controls.
* The player model in the skin picker no longer covers the rotate icons in certain GUI scales.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.10]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.10]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.5.0.10]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.10]]
[[lzh:基石版一點五點〇點一〇]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.5 build 5]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.5.0.10]]
[[ru:Beta 1.5.0.10 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.5.0.10]]