{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.30.21 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.30.21.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.3021.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.3021.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.30.21<br>
|parent=1.17.30
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': August 12, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.11
|prev=beta 1.17.30.20
|next=beta 1.17.30.22
|nextparent=1.17.32
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.30.21''' is the sixth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.30]], released on August 12, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4406948851213|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.30.21 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=August 12, 2021}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Monster Spawner]]'''
* No longer emits light to match ''Java Edition''.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay]]'''
* Re-added "Experimental Molang Features" toggle to support experimental Molang features.

=== Technical === 
'''Graphics '''
* Added DragonFX materials to support rasterized g-buffer pre-pass of raytracing resources.

'''Data Driven Items '''
* Updated documentation for DamageableItemComponent.

'''Molang '''
* Moved experimental Molang queries (other than those related to Actor Properties) to a new 'Experimental Molang Features' toggle.

== Experimental ==
These changes are accessible by enabling the "Experimental Molang Features" experimental toggle.
=== Technical ===
'''Data Driven Blocks '''
* Adds BlockPartVisibilityComponent  
** Allows creators to specify Molang conditions for each “bone” listed in the geometry JSON that turn on/off bones based on the block state

'''Molang '''
* Adds experimental block_neighbor_has_any_tags and block_neighbor_has_all_tags MoLang queries  
** Takes a block relative position and a set of tags 
** Returns 0/1

== Fixes ==
'''Stability and Performance '''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed an issue that could cause a crash when downloading large marketplace worlds.
* Fixed an issue that could cause a crash or prevent worlds from being accessed or opened on some Android 11 devices ({{bug|MCPE-137652}}).

'''Vanilla Parity '''
* Matched respawn from bed behavior with Java by attempting to avoid placing the player on damage-dealing blocks when waking up from a bed.
* Matched respawn from bed behavior with Java by attempting to place the player on the side of the bed they entered from when waking up from a bed ({{bug|MCPE-118654}}).
* Mob spawners no longer emit light. 

'''Mobs '''
* Staying close to Powder Snow doesn't protect undead mobs from burning under sunlight ({{bug|MCPE-131005}}).

'''Character Creator '''
* Infinite loading no longer appears after selecting the "See pack in store" button within the skin pack description section of the dressing room. 

'''User Interface and HUD '''
* Fixed an issue where the item category text color did not match the item text color if it was changed in resource packs. 
* Fixed an issue where patterns in the loom would not display correctly with some texture packs.

'''Technical'''
* Fixed experimental query.bone_orientation_trs to have correct translation Y and scale results.
* Crash will no longer occur when entering a world with a custom resource pack that contains query.armor_color_slot ({{bug|MCPE-106437}}).
* Fixed controller support when editing NPC dialog.
* Parsing of UI JSON field "ignored" now throws a content_error if it is invalid.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.21]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.30.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.30.21]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.30.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.30.21]]