{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.06}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.6.0.6.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' July 11, 2018
|parent=1.6.0
|prevparent=1.5.3
|prev=beta 1.6.0.5
|next=beta 1.6.0.8
|nextparent=1.6.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.6.0.6''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.6.0]], released on July 11, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360007244531-Minecraft-Beta-1-6-0-6-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.6.0.6 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)}}</ref> which adds the <code>doInsomnia</code> game rule and fixes several bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''[[Gamerule]]s'''
* {{code|doInsomnia}}
** Toggles if [[phantom]]s can spawn at [[night]].

== Changes ==

* Improved the trident throwing animation.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Underwater plants can now be placed in water columns that originate from the top water source blocks.
* Barrier blocks once again no longer block rain and snow from falling.
* Fixed the sounds of breaking items playing twice for boats, minecarts, paintings, and armor stands.
* Strays once again wear torn garments.
* Phantoms no longer appear in the sky when spawned from a monster spawner.
* Players no longer appear to be floating above minecarts. ({{bug|MCPE-33787}})
* Fixed drowned carrying nautilus shells not dropping them after dying.
* The coral decorations item group no longer shows the placeholder name.
* Fixed issues with the ender dragon disappearing or dying for little to no reason.
* Multiple items can now be collected from the villager trading output slot. ({{bug|MCPE-32635}})
* Kelp blocks once again break when the kelp below them is broken.
* Fixed enderman heads staying visible while under invisibility.
* Fished items once again always go towards the player when being reeled in.
* The Knockback enchantment once again affects mobs. ({{bug|MCPE-34589}})
* Having a '#' symbol in chat text no longer causes a syntax error.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.6]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.6]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.6.0.6]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.6]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.6 build 3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.6.0.6]]
[[ru:Beta 1.6.0.6 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.6.0.6]]