{{see also|Bedrock Edition removed features}}
{{Outdated feature|edition=bedrock}}
This page documents a list of recipes which no longer exist in current versions of Bedrock Edition.

== Crafting recipes ==

=== Cocoa beans ===
{{see also|Dyes}}

In [[Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha build 3]], [[cocoa beans]] were added with their own exclusive recipe. Since [[Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 1|v0.9.0 build 1]], cocoa beans were made able to be obtained with [[cocoa pods]]. In the [[Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha|v0.16.0]] official release, cocoa beans' crafting recipe was removed.

The recipe was removed because cocoa beans could be obtained from cocoa pods. It was reported by a user in the issue tracker and was confirmed as an unintended feature.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-16221||Cocoa Beans From Dyes|Fixed}}</ref>

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|shapeless= 1
|ingredients= [[Ink Sac]] +<br>[[Red Dye]] +<br>[[Yellow Dye]]<br>'''or'''<br>[[Ink Sac]] +<br>[[Orange Dye]]
|A1=Ink Sac;Ink Sac
|B1=Red Dye; Orange Dye	
|C1=Yellow Dye;
|Output= Cocoa Beans,2
}}

=== Enchanted golden apple ===
{{see also|Enchanted Golden Apple}}

The [[enchanted golden apple]] recipe was removed in [[Bedrock Edition 1.2|1.2 beta 1.2.0.2]].

However, enchanted golden apples may still be [[Enchanted Golden Apple#Obtaining|obtained]] in other ways.
{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A1=Block of Gold |A2=Block of Gold |A3=Block of Gold
|B1=Block of Gold |B2=Apple         |B3=Block of Gold
|C1=Block of Gold |C2=Block of Gold |C3=Block of Gold
|Output=Enchanted Golden Apple
}}

=== Bed ===
{{see also|Bed}}

The recipe of crafting the red [[bed]] with any [[wool]] color was removed in [[Pocket Edition 1.1.0]] with the addition of multiple colored beds. This recipe was removed because prior to 1.1.0, only red beds existed in the game, and now it is required to have matching red wool to craft a red bed.
{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
 |A2=Any Wool |A3=Any Planks
 |B2=Any Wool         |B3=Any Planks
 |C2=Any Wool |C3=Any Planks
|Output=Red Bed
}}

=== Old Stonecutter ===
{{see also|Stonecutter (old)}}

In [[Pocket Edition v0.13.0 alpha build 1|v0.13.0 build 1]], the crafting recipe for the [[Stonecutter/old|old stonecutter]] was removed, but it is only available through add-ons.

In [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.10.0.3]], the old stonecutter was not removed but functionally replaced with the new [[stonecutter]].

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A1=Cobblestone |A2=Cobblestone
|B1=Cobblestone |B2=Cobblestone        
|Output=Stonecutter BE
}}

=== Nether reactor core ===
The [[nether reactor core]]'s recipe was made no longer available and it no longer appears in the creative inventory. It will drop its ingredients when broken.
{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A1=Iron Ingot |A2=Iron Ingot  |A3=Iron Ingot
|B1=Diamond |B2=Diamond |B3=Diamond
|C1=Iron Ingot |C2=Iron Ingot |C3=Iron Ingot
|Output=Nether Reactor Core
}}

=== Smooth stone slab ===
In older versions, the smooth stone slab (called Stone Slab then) could be crafted using any [[stone]]. However, the recipe changed to use stone only in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.0.2|1.2.0]], and in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.9.0.0|1.9.0]], the recipe changed again so it requires [[smooth stone]].

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A2=Any Stone
|B2=Any Stone
|C2=Any Stone
|Output=Smooth Stone Slab
}}

=== Stone bricks ===
In older versions, [[stone bricks]] could be crafted using [[cobblestone]], [[andesite]], [[granite]], [[diorite]], and their polished variants. However, in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.0.2|1.2.0]], stone bricks were changed to be crafted with stone only.

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A1=Any Stone
|A2=Any Stone
|B1=Any Stone
|B2=Any Stone
|Output=Stone Bricks
}}

=== Redstone repeater ===
In older versions, [[redstone repeater]]s could be crafted using [[cobblestone]], [[andesite]], [[granite]], [[diorite]], and their polished variants. However, in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.0.2|1.2.0]], the recipes changed to use only stone.

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A2=Redstone Torch
|B2=Redstone Dust
|C2=Redstone Torch
|A3=Any Stone
|B3=Any Stone
|C3=Any Stone
|Output=Redstone Repeater
}}

=== Redstone comparator ===
In older versions, [[redstone comparator]]s could be crafted using [[cobblestone]], [[andesite]], [[granite]], [[diorite]], and their polished variants. However, in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.0.2|1.2.0]], the recipes changed to use only stone.

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|B1=Redstone Torch 
|A2=Redstone Torch
|B2=Nether Quartz
|C2=Redstone Torch 
|A3=Any Stone
|B3=Any Stone
|C3=Any Stone
|Output=Redstone Comparator
}}

=== Sandstone and red sandstone stairs ===
Sandstone and red sandstone stairs were previously crafted from any type of Sandstone or Red Sandstone, but in [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]], the recipe changed to use regular sandstone or red sandstone only.

{{crafting
|ignoreusage=1
|head=1
|A1=Any Sandstone
|A2=Any Sandstone
|B2=Any Sandstone
|A3=Any Sandstone
|B3=Any Sandstone
|C3=Any Sandstone
|Output=Sandstone Stairs
}}
{{crafting
|ignoreusage=1
|foot=1
|A1=Any Red Sandstone
|A2=Any Red Sandstone 
|B2=Any Red Sandstone
|A3=Any Red Sandstone
|B3=Any Red Sandstone 
|C3=Any Red Sandstone  
|Output=Red Sandstone Stairs
}}

=== Sandstone and red sandstone slab ===
Sandstone and red sandstone slabs were previously crafted from any type of sandstone or red sandstone, but in [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]], the recipe changed to use regular sandstone or red sandstone only.

{{crafting
|ignoreusage=1
|head=1
|A2=Any Sandstone
|B2=Any Sandstone
|C2=Any Sandstone
|Output=Sandstone Slab
}}
{{crafting
|ignoreusage=1
|foot=1
|A2=Any Red Sandstone
|B2=Any Red Sandstone
|C2=Any Red Sandstone
|Output=Red Sandstone Slab
}}

=== Honeycomb Block ===
{{main|Honeycomb Block}}

Honeycomb blocks were previously crafted from 9 [[honeycomb]]s. Now, honeycomb block can be crafted from 4 honeycombs.

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A1= Honeycomb |A2= Honeycomb |A3= Honeycomb
|B1= Honeycomb |B2= Honeycomb |B3= Honeycomb
|C1= Honeycomb |C2= Honeycomb |C3= Honeycomb
|Output=Honeycomb Block
}}

=== Copper Horn ===
{{main|Copper Horn}}

The [[Copper Horn]] was an item used to play sound, which had 10 variations; each of them could play 3 different sounds when looking up, crouching, or doing neither of those, respectively. In total, there were 30 different sounds that could be played using copper horns. 

In [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.0.24|beta 1.19.0.24]], the Copper Horn was removed. Mojang in the [[Feedback site|Minecraft Feedback]]'s Knowledge Base said "the Copper Horn was a fun experiment that didn't quite live up to our design goals, so we decided to remove it".<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/5540500564365-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-19-0-24-25#:~:text=Removed%20Copper%20Horn,better%20features%20in%20the%20future!| title = "Removed Copper Horn, better features in the future!" - Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.0.24/25|website=feedback.minecraft.net}}</ref>

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
|A2= Copper Ingot |B2= Goat Horn|C2= Copper Ingot
 |B3= Copper Ingot
|Output=Copper Horn
}}

=== String ===
In [[Pocket Edition alpha 1.1.0.3]], an exclusive recipe of using one [[cobweb]] to craft 9 [[string]] was added. In [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.10.20]], the recipe was removed to match {{el|je}}.

{{crafting|ignoreusage=1
 |B2=Cobweb
 |Output=String,9
}}

== Smelting recipes ==

=== Red dye ===
{{see also|Dyes}}

The reason for the removal of the [[red dye]] recipe is unknown. It may have been because of the name being "rose red", implying it came from [[rose]]s instead of [[mushroom]]s, although the name was changed to "red dye" in [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0|1.8.0]].

{{Smelting
 |head=1
 |Red Mushroom
 |Rose Red
 |foot=1
}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition}}

[[lzh:基石版既除方]]
[[zh:基岩版已移除配方]]