{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.40.24 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.40.24.png
| edition = Bedrock 
| type = Preview
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - October 5, 2022
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.4024.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.4024.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.40.24
| parent = 1.19.40
| prevparent = 1.19.31
| prev = Preview 1.19.40.23
| next =
| nextparent = 1.19.41
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.40.24''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.40.24''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fifth and final beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.40]], released on October 5, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/9661668858125|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.40.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 5, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Prevent replacing terrain on Maps with black pixels as a result of Client Side generation. ({{bug|MCPE-162421}})

'''Marketplace'''
* Added a Clear Cache button in Storage Settings for all platforms. This button clears contents of Marketplace folders (but not worlds) and might help alleviate issues downloading content. ({{bug|MCPE-54531}})

'''Mobs'''
* Sweet Berry Bushes once again deal damage to players. ({{bug|MCPE-162310}})

'''Touch Controls'''
* Fixed a bug that prevented scrolling through the Village trade list on mobile devices.

'''User Interface'''
* Temporarily reverted a change that linked Item Text Background with existing Text Background opacity slider in Accessibility Options.
* The copy coordinates gamepad tooltip now uses the correct icon depending on the platform. ({{bug|MCPE-162654}})

'''Blocks'''
* Temporarily reverted the changes to Dirt Path and Farmland collision changes, as well as Soul Sand and Mud blocks sinking while we iron out some bugs.</onlyinclude>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.40 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.24]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.24]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.40.24]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.40.24]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.40.24]]