{{Infobox version
| image =  Bedrock 1.19.80.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.80.23.png
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| server = 1.19.80.23
| build = 14749708
| editorver = 0.3.2
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
951908023 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961908023 (x86, 31)<br>
971908023 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981908023 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - March 30, 2023
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.8023.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.80.23<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.8023.70
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.80.23.zip Windows][https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.80.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.80
| prevparent = 1.19.73
| prev = Preview 1.19.80.22
| next = Preview 1.19.80.24
| nextparent = 1.19.81
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.19.80.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.80.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.80]], released on March 30, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/14439821397261|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.80.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 30, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* A Wishlist feature has been added to select clients for testing so that players can save things to purchase at a later time.

== Fixes ==
'''Blocks'''
* Fixed an issue where colored wool became white wool after been loaded from worlds prior to 1.17. ({{bug|MCPE-168684}})
'''Commands'''
* Fixed a bug where Command Blocks using the {{cmd|teleport}} command could cause a crash.
'''Gameplay'''
* Flying no longer becomes disabled when the player touches a block above them.
* Fixed an issue where an Armor Stand’s pose would not change when right-clicked while the player was flying and had sneak held down. ({{bug|MCPE-168548}})
** '''Known issue:''' Currently Armor cannot be equipped on Armor Stands except when using a Dispenser.
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Fixed an issue where Ghast volume and volume distance were too low. ({{bug|MCPE-168324}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.80 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.80.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.80.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.80.23]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.80.23]]