{{Infobox version
| title = v0.9.8
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = May 7, 2025
| client = 1.21.90.23
| prevparent = 0.9.0
| prev = 0.9.7
| next = 0.9.9
| nextparent = 1.0.0
}}{{More images}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.9.8''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on May 7, 2025, which improves selection and fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/238|title=Release 0.9.8 (1.21.90.23)|website=GitHub|date=May 7, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36415388784909-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-23|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 7, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
'''Inspector'''
* Added Block Inspector "Reset Block Data" button to reset the block states to all defaults.

'''Selection'''
* Added a hollow trim action to selection. This converts the current selection volume to a new volume which represents all of the fully obscured non-air blocks.
* Updated Line Tool Functionality.
** Updated the UI, added tooltip labels and quick action buttons.
** Added the ability to make lines with multiple points/segments instead of just one line between two points.
** Added the ability to adjust thickness (weights) of the lines.
** Added the ability to nudge lines in any direction by 1 block.
** Added the ability to convert current lines into a selection volume.
** Most Line Tool actions now undo/redo-able.
** Added the ability to select all/none points so they can all be moved at once.
** Line algorithm dropdown now updates live and applies to all (and new) points.
** Added Line Tool Mouse Controls.
*** Left-click to create a 'connected' control point (creates a line segment between the previous point and the new point).
*** {{keys|ctrl}} + Left-click to create a separated, 'disconnected' control point (no line segment is created between the previous point and the new point).
** Added Line Tool Hotkeys.
*** Nudge Selected Points ({{keys|ctrl+shift}} + {{keys|up}}/{{keys|down}}/{{keys|left}}/{{keys|right}}/{{keys|page up}}/{{keys|page down}}).
*** Convert to Selection ({{keys|Alt+S}}).
*** Toggle Select All ({{keys|Ctrl+A}}).
*** Fill ({{keys|Ctrl+F}}).
*** Delete Blocks (ie., Fill with Air) ({{keys|Del}}).
*** Clear All Points ({{keys|Ctrl+Backspace}}).
*** Clear Selected Points ({{keys|Ctrl+Shift+Backspace}}).
*** Increase/decrease Horizontal Line Thickness ({{keys|Shift}} + {{keys|Left}}/{{keys|Right}}).
*** Increase/decrease Vertical Line Thickness ({{keys|Shift}} + {{keys|Up}}/{{keys|Down}}).
*** Increase/decrease Uniform Line Thickness (when Uniform is enabled) ({{keys|Shift}} + {{keys|Left}}/{{keys|Right}}/{{keys|Up}}/{{keys|Down}}).

'''API'''
* Added Color Timeline API ({{cd|IColorTimelinePropertyItem}}). The Color Timeline uses one dimensional graph to represent color interpolation over time.
* Added Number Timeline API ({{cd|INumberTimelinePropertyItem}}). The Number Timeline uses two dimensional graph to represent linear interpolation between two nodes over time.
* The two new APIs can be used in the Editor AGFX settings.
* Added ability to specify a tooltip to the Editor menu items.
* Added ability to append an icon to the editor menu action items.
* Added optional property {{cd|uniqueId}} in {{cd|IPropertyPaneOptions}} API to create panes with unique identifiers.

== Changes ==
* Updated {{cd|BlockLine}} implementation (now {{cd|BlockShapes}}).
* Updated water parameters to be available and modified in the Deferred Lighting Settings window again.
* Updated Block Inspector "Refresh Block Data" button logic to update the pane with the current block state.

== Fixes ==
* Fixes begin transaction error when selecting a selection point outside the maximum volume size.
* Fixed a bug where a player could incorrectly load another player's hotbar setting in a multiplayer session after re-entering a game.
* Fixing bug where the ladder could be interacted with using the workbench tool.
* Fixed a bug where the export directory location was incorrect in the log panel.
* Fixed a bug that caused {{cd|show}} function of {{cd|IRootPropertyPane}} to not display the panel.
* Fixed a bug where the Export Pane weather cycle setting was being set incorrectly.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.9.8]]
[[ru:0.9.8 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.9.8 (Bedrock Editor)]]