{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0.04}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
| title = beta 1.13.0.4
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Beta
| internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.4.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.4.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.4<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.13.0.4.png
| parent = 1.13.0
| date = '''Xbox One, Windows 10:''' July 26, 2019<br>'''Android:''' August 2, 2019<ref>{{tweet|Mega_Spud|1157350560871387137|Android players - Minecraft 1.13.0.4 Beta is *finally* rolling out to the Google Play store - thanks for your patience everyone! (It should be out within the next 24 hours tops)|August 2, 2019}}</ref>
| prevparent = 1.12.1
| prev = beta 1.13.0.3
| next = beta 1.13.0.5
| nextparent = 1.13.1
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.4''' is the third beta version released for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]],<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360031240811-Minecraft-Beta-1-13-0-4-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.4 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=July 26, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs and adds [[light block]]s.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===

'''[[Light block]]s'''
* Supports auxiliary data from 0 to 15 for [[light]] level.
* Are available only through {{cmd|give}}, {{cmd|fill}}, and {{cmd|setblock}}.
* [[End rod]]s with data values 6 and 7 updated to this version will display item data identical to the block item form of the light block; however, they retain their identifier (<code>end_rod</code>). If updated again to the current version of [[Bedrock Edition]], they will convert to light blocks. 
* Secret second form of the [[Light (block)|Light block]] added. It uses the same texture as the [[Unknown]] block. 

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that happened when quick moving a structure void block. ({{bug|MCPE-47903}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when blocking projectiles with a shield. ({{bug|MCPE-48070}})
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when approaching world spawn. ({{bug|MCPE-46686}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox when changing internet connection.

'''Performance'''
* Improved performance and stability when playing on split-screen on Xbox.

'''General'''
* Fixed the minecart rider rotation not being updated correctly on some packs. 
* Fixed the third-person camera view shaking issue. ({{bug|MCPE-48987}})
* Adjusted the player's sneak animation position. ({{bug|MCPE-47883}})
* Players can now join a world correctly after accepting an invite. 
* Nether portals now connect properly after being cloned. 
* Fixed the animation of nausea (including using nether portals). ({{bug|MCPE-47960}})
* Added the mirror back to the left arm in humanoid geometry. ({{bug|MCPE-47944}})
* Split-screen players can now only join if they have an adequate controller available.
* The correct Marketplace inventory items are now shown when switching users. 
* Fixed broken rotations in player animation for attacking. 
* Players now face the specified direction when added to teleport commands. 
* Fixed issue of damaged elytra texture never getting used. ({{bug|MCPE-47758}})
* {{cmd|clear}} now works correctly with damageable items.
* Global resource packs in Settings now update to the new chosen language.
* The throwing animation now plays when charging a trident with Riptide.
* Corrected the player's sprint/swim state when exiting water.
* Fixed an issue with making purchases on Oculus Rift.
* Fixed a controller issue when docking the Nintendo Switch.
* Left and right brackets on the world/friend/server tabs now function correctly with full keyboard controls toggled on.
* The text to speech narrator now works correctly with punctuation in text boxes.
* Fixed an issue with in-game patch notes not always showing up correctly.
* Fixed an issue with some damageable items (such as armor, tools) not being suggested in the recipe book.
* Removed the “Create Realm” button from beta versions of the game.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue that was sometimes causing mobs to despawn randomly. ({{bug|MCPE-47922}})
* Players no longer fall through opening shulker boxes and pistons. ({{bug|MCPE-47882}})
* Items that have been smelted can now be crafted and stacked correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-47907}}, {{bug|MCPE-48421}}, {{bug|MCPE-47684}})
* Buttons are now craftable from the recipe book again. ({{bug|MCPE-48584}}) 

'''Mobs'''
* Adult villagers can now get into beds with low ceilings.
* Creepers no longer lose aggro when the line of sight is broken briefly.
* Removed the fox “moveToVillage” behavior to match ''Java Edition''.
* Mobs can now enter minecarts and boats again. ({{bug|MCPE-48596}})
* Dolphins now jump properly again.
* Zombies no longer become stuck on doors.
* The parrot dancing animation is now at the correct speed. ({{bug|MCPE-48356}})
* Parrots can now fly correctly again. ({{bug|MCPE-47954}}) 
* Armor stands and players can again wear helmets with secondary layers.
* Items no longer appear as mobs when held by armor stands. ({{bug|MCPE-48629}})
* Arrows now render correctly when held by armor stands.
* Dolphins now follow players in boats again.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed cloud shading. ({{bug|MCPE-47814}})
* Fixed an issue with water not rendering correctly on some servers. ({{bug|MCPE-46813}})
* Fixed the flame height issue when player in on fire. ({{bug|MCPE-48175}})
* Multiple blocks no longer change color to black when moved by pistons.
* Using {{cmd|fill}} and {{cmd|clone}} commands with glass structures now render correctly.

'''User interface'''
* Fixed the directional arrow controls when using the full keyboard gameplay setting. ({{bug|MCPE-47853}})
* Removed the accessibility tab from the "Create World" screen. 

'''Add-ons and scripting engine'''
* Ducks can once again be hit by the player in the MINECON 2018 pack.
* Fixed the positioning of particles that were only showing correctly when centered on screen.
* Adding backward compatibility for old player animation flags.
* Experimental UI is now registered as a trusted pack. ({{bug|MCPE-47818}})
* Fixed the horse rein positioning and rotation in certain packs.
* Fixed an issue with nested behavior pack definitions not running correctly.
* Fixed an issue with minimum compatible versions of certain packs not working correctly. 
* The Timer component now works on vanilla projectiles.
* {{code|minecraft:spell_effects}} no longer trigger a second timer. 
* Fixed an issue with the {{cd|must_see_forget_duration}} component not working. 
* Fixed an entity collision issue that was affecting some marketplace maps.
* Invisible end rods (variant 6) used in various Marketplace maps are now invisible again.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.4]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.4]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.4]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.4]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.4]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.4 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.4]]