{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=<!--Bedrock 1.15.0.56.png-->
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.15.56.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.15.56.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.15.0.56<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' March 11, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.15.0.55
|next=beta 1.16.0.51
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.15.0.56''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.15.0 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16.0]]<ref>{{tweet|Chupacaubrey|1239595265264238593}}</ref>}} released on March 11, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360040841731|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.15.0.56 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 11, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs. This is the last beta version of 1.16.0 to be released before the decision to skip version 1.15.0 on Bedrock Edition.

==Fixes==
'''Add-ons and scripting'''
* Bee spawn eggs can now be edited in content packs.
* Fixed an issue that was preventing custom blocks from being used in add-on packs. ({{bug|MCPE-63121}})
* Fixed an issue with add-ons that could cause the minecraft:timer component to fire prematurely in some conditions.
* Fixed an issue that was causing particle animation to become inverted.
* Using the {{code|minecraft:pushable}} component in add-ons will no longer break older content.
* Fixed an issue that was preventing animation controllers in behavior packs from running on dedicated servers and Realms. ({{bug|MCPE-59881}})

'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that was sometimes caused by the use of custom blocks.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to use a custom recipe add-on that also returns items to the player.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading a saved game when the player is in water or lava after using a potion of Fire Resistance or Water Breathing.
* Fixed an issue that could sometimes cause the game to crash when exiting game with a menu open.
* Fixing a crash with enchants being used during melee. ({{bug|MCPE-63517}})
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading level data.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue that would cause blocks to reappear after they have been broken. ({{bug|MCPE-48914}})
* Fixed observer blocks not being powered when being moved. ({{bug|MCPE-63785}})
* Enchanted weapons now apply their effects correctly again. ({{bug|MCPE-63124}})
* Changing armor will now update and show the correct armor visually. ({{bug|MCPE-63135}})
* Shearing a sheep will now update the sheep correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-63188}})
* Spruce and giant spruce trees no longer generate with missing logs. ({{bug|MCPE-63658}})
* Leaves no longer prevent saplings from growing into trees. ({{bug|MCPE-63153}})
* Hoppers will now collect bone meal from composters placed above. ({{bug|MCPE-63809}})

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue that could cause chunks to be overwritten when converting worlds from Console Editions to Bedrock. ({{bug|MCPE-58480}})
* Maps will now convert from Editions to Bedrock at the correct scale. ({{bug|MCPE-58796}})
* Fixed various arm animations in both third-person views. ({{bug|MCPE-63088}})

'''User interface'''
* The command block's UI will now fit correctly inside screens with a 4:3 ratio. ({{bug|MCPE-41730}})</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
<references group="fn"/>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.56]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.56]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.15.0.56]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.15.0.56]]
[[ru:Beta 1.15.0.56 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.15.0.56]]