{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.9021.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.90.21
| image = Bedrock 1.21.90.21 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.90.21.png
| build = 32912764
| editorver = 0.9.7
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952109021 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962109021 (x86, 34)<br />
972109021 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982109021 (x86_64, 34)
| date = April 29, 2025
| server = 1.21.90.21-1.21.90.22
| serverdl = '''Server (1.21.90.21)'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.21.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.21.zip Linux]<br>'''Server (1.21.90.22)'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.90
| prevparent = 1.21.84
| prev = Preview 1.21.90.20
| next = Preview 1.21.90.23
| nextparent = 1.21.91
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.90.21''' (ChromeOS, Android), or '''Preview 1.21.90.21''' (Windows, Xbox, PlayStation), or '''Preview 1.21.90.22''' (iOS, iPadOS), is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.90]], released on April 29, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36203344176269-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-21|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 29, 2025}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]'''
*Maximum beacon beam height is now 2048.

'''[[Dead Bush]]'''
*Dead bush ambient sounds now have a slightly increased chance of playing.

'''[[Dried Ghast]]'''
*The recipe for the dried ghast block has been updated to now require a soul sand block rather than a bone block.
{{crafting
|A1 = Ghast Tear
|B1 = Ghast Tear
|C1 = Ghast Tear
|A2 = Ghast Tear
|B2 = Soul Sand
|C2 = Ghast Tear
|A3 = Ghast Tear
|B3 = Ghast Tear
|C3 = Ghast Tear
|Output = Dried Ghast
|ignoreusage=1
}}

'''[[Sand]], [[Red Sand]], [[Terracotta]]'''
*Ambient sand sounds no longer requires [[Light#Sky light|sky access]] to play.
*Ambient sand sounds now have a slightly decreased chance to play.
*Ambient sand sounds can now play in all biomes.
**The frequency and conditions for the sounds are now completely independent of the biome the blocks are in.
*Sand, red sand, and terracotta blocks no longer make ambient wind sounds ({{code|block.sand.wind}}).
**They still make sand sounds ({{code|block.sand.idle}}).

'''[[Short Dry Grass]] and [[Tall Dry Grass]]'''
*Short dry grass and tall dry grass can now make ambient wind sounds ({{code|block.sand.wind}}) when above 2 sand, red sand, terracotta blocks.

=== Items ===
'''[[Lead]]'''
*The [[slimeball]] in the recipe has been replaced with a string.
{{crafting
|A1=String |B1=String
|A2=String |B2=String
|C3=String
|Output=Lead,2
|ignoreusage=1}}

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Blaze]]'''
*Increased blaze attack sound distance to 32 to match {{JE}}.
*Blaze's attack distance has been increased from 16 to 48 blocks to match its target detection range.

'''[[Ghastling]]'''
*Ghastlings can now follow happy ghasts.

'''[[Piglin]]'''
*Piglins can now give dried ghast blocks when [[bartered]] with.

'''[[Zoglin]]'''
*Decreased zoglin speed when chasing the player to match {{JE}}.

'''[[Zombified Piglin]]'''
*Baby zombified piglins can no longer have golden swords equipped.
*Decreased the speed of zombified piglins when chasing the player to match {{JE}}.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Accessibility]]'''
*Text to speech will select an appropriate voice if available when changing in-game language on Android, iOS, and Windows 10/11.

=== General ===
'''[[Multiplayer]]'''
*Gamertags are used on all platforms to identify players in cross-platform multiplayer games.

'''Graphics'''
*The local player's vehicle will now always be eligible for rendering, no matter the orientation of the model compared to the render bounding box.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
:{{cd|@minecraft/server 2.0.0}}
*Added {{cd|isValid}} property on {{cd|Camera}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|stable}}.
*Moved {{cd|TicksPerDay}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|stable}}.
*Moved enum {{cd|ScriptTintMethod}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|stable}}.
*Moved enum {{cd|ScriptBlockMapColorComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|stable}}.

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Replaced {{cd|emitter_intensity}} with {{cd|emitter_particle_count}} in {{cd|block_destruction.json}} and {{cd|block_slide.json}}. This is to go in line with the particle count field in the {{cd|BlockDestructionParticlesComponent}}. {{cd|emitter_intensity}} will still be used in the previous versions of these files.

'''Components'''
*The {{cd|minecraft:input_air_controlled}} component no longer requires {{cd|use_beta_features}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Upcoming Creator Features" and "Locator Bar" experimental toggles.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
:{{cd|@minecraft/server 2.1.0-beta}}
*Added enum {{cd|LiquidSettings}} in {{cd|beta}}. 
*Added optional property {{cd|liquidSettings}} to scripting interfaces {{cd|JigsawPlaceOptions}} and {{cd|JigsawStructurePlaceOptions}} in {{cd|beta}}. Defaults to {{cd|ApplyWaterlogging}}.
*New {{cd|cheatsRequired}} property on {{cd|CustomCommand}} interface.
**If undefined or {{cd|true}} (default is {{cd|true}}), custom command execution requires that cheats are enabled. If {{cd|false}}, then the custom command can execute without cheats enabled.
*Removed {{cd|Player.isOp()}}.
*Added read-only property {{cd|layerPermissionLevel}} to {{cd|Player}}.
*Added property {{cd|commandPermissionLevel}} to {{cd|Player}}.
*Added {{cd|PlayerPermissionLevel}} enum with {{cd|Visitor}}, {{cd|Member}}, {{cd|Operator}} values.

'''Block Components'''
*Added field {{cd|uv_lock}} to {{cd|minecraft:geometry}} block component behind Upcoming Creator Features experiment.
**UV locking will allow faces to have the same texture orientations as the default geometry state, regardless of how {{cd|minecraft:transformation}} component rotates the geometry.

'''[[Commands]]'''
*Added optional property {{cd|liquidSettings}} to {{cmd|place structure}} and {{cmd|place jigsaw}} commands. Defaults to {{cd|apply_waterlogging}}.

'''Components'''
*The {{cd|BlockDestructionParticles}} component has a new field allowing creators to determine the amount of particles that are generated on the destruction of the block.

'''[[Jigsaw]]'''
*Added optional property {{cd|liquid_settings}} to {{cd|minecraft:jigsaw}} JSON to allow control over handling liquids when placing structures. Defaults to {{cd|apply_waterlogging}}.

=== Changes ===
==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Locator Bar]]'''
*The distance of players now modifies the size of the locator bar player dot instead of the opacity.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.90.21 Preview
|;old
|35647|Blazes attack range too low
|64477|Can't use various items while looking at interactive blocks while sneaking
|166103|Piglins, brutes and hoglins of the bastions doesn't drop xp when killed
|174465|Player is teleported to the void when using an end gateway
|174826|Sponges can absorb water from waterlogged barriers
|178295|Lava disappears when placed or dispensed into a waterlogged block
|185829|Wind Burst now launches much less blocks
|194838|Frozen Peaks, Jagged Peaks & Snowy Slopes replace all water under Y{{=}}63 with ice
|200797|Player shadow appears on happy ghast face
|212398|Vibrant Visuals: Deep black pixels trigger graphical artifacts when the player stops moving if TAAU is enabled
|216867|You no longer start to swim automatically when you double tab forward button to sprint jump into water
|otherissuescount=9}}
'''Other'''
*Dispensing a lava bucket on a waterlogged Dried Ghast no longer duplicates the Dried Ghast.
*Fixed an issue where swapping item slots during an attack against a mob would re-select the original item slot used during the attack instead of staying on the new inventory slot item.
*Fixed a bug in Vibrant Visuals where materials with certain properties rendered black.
*Mobs will no longer clip through blocks sometimes when viewing them at a distance when they auto step up a block.
*Pigs saddled by hand no longer drop two saddles when killed. (All pigs saddled by hand between 1.21.70 and now will still drop their duplicated saddles on death.)
*Fixed a bug with the {{cd|minecraft:geometry}} component where the full block geometry identifier {{cd|minecraft:geometry.full_block}} was being ignored for several behaviors, including:
**Mob spawning (mobs with custom spawn rules can now spawn on blocks using full block geometry)
**Chest obstruction (blocks with full block geometry will now obstruct Chests)
**Grass and Farmland survival (Grass and Farmland will turn into Dirt with a block using full block geometry above them)
**Nylium survival (Nylium will turn into Netherrack with a block using full block geometry above it)
**Vine growth (Vines will now spread to blocks using full block geometry)
**Breathability (Mobs and actors can no longer breathe in blocks using full block geometry)
*Fixed incorrect warning for using valid entity with event identifier in {{cd|minecraft:entity_placer}} component.
*Fixed {{cd|query.health}} to work for the Wither to properly reflect the elapsed ticks since it started dying.
*Jigsaw structures being placed in water no longer replace water incorrectly.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.90 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.90.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.90.21]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.90.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.90.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.90.21]]