{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=<!--Bedrock 1.15.0.54.png-->
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.15.54.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.15.54.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.15.0.54<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' February 27, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.15.0.53
|next=beta 1.15.0.55
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.15.0.54''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.15.0 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16.0]]<ref>{{tweet|Chupacaubrey|1239595265264238593}}</ref>}} released on February 27, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360040273531|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.15.0.54 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=February 27, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when traveling towards -z coordinates. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when adjusting certain JSON strings in behavior packs.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after resuming the game on Xbox One.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using the character creator.
* Fixed a crash that could happen if a slime targeted something and lost sight of it.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue that prevented players from being teleported to a nearby chunk that the game thought was too far away.
* Fixed an issue that was preventing chunks from loading in correctly when traveling between dimensions. ({{bug|MCPE-63268}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented strongholds from generating with libraries and portal rooms. ({{bug|MCPE-63713}})
* Ocean monuments once again generate with the correct interior structures. ({{bug|MCPE-63523}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Players will no longer be teleported underneath the main island when using an end gateway. ({{bug|MCPE-63284}})
* Fixed an issue that meant pillager patrols could spawn in unexpected places. ({{bug|MCPE-58285}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented inventories from being opened after riding a mount. ({{bug|MCPE-63196}})

'''Mobs'''
* Tweaked the iron golem strolling animation. ({{bug|MCPE-63151}})
* Fixed an issue that prevented polar bears, parrots, ocelots, and dolphins from being leashed. ({{bug|MCPE-63095}})

'''User interface'''
* The "Require players to accept resource packs to join" checkbox is now visible again.
* Fixed the 'Take a tour' navigation arrows in the Marketplace.

'''Add-ons and scripting'''
* Entities no longer freeze when a component group containing a navigation component is removed.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
<references group="fn"/>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.54]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.54]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.15.0.54]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.54]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.15.0.54]]
[[ru:Beta 1.15.0.54 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.15.0.54]]