{{Infobox version
|title=v1.10.0
|vernum=1.10
|image=Bedrock 1.10.0 banner.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.10.0.png
|edition=Bedrock
|name=[[Texture Update]]
|date=March 19, 2019<ref name="website">{{Mcnet|minecraft-bedrock-update-incoming-|Minecraft Bedrock Update Incoming!|March 19, 2019|Tom Stone}}</ref>
|server=1.10.0.7
|internal='''Windows 10''': 1.10.7.0
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.10.0.7.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.10.0.7.zip Linux]
|prevparent=1.9.0
|next=1.10.1
|nextparent=1.11.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/Texture Update}}
'''1.10.0''', the release of the '''[[Texture Update]]''' and the third experimental release for '''[[Village & Pillage]]''', is a major update to {{el|be}} released on March 19, 2019.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360025059512-Minecraft-1-10-0-Bedrock-|title=Minecraft - 1.10.0 (Bedrock)|date=March 19, 2019}}</ref> It adds some more features of [[Village & Pillage]] that were not added in either 1.8.0 or 1.9.0, such as [[shield]]s, [[pillager outpost]]s, new types of [[villager]]s, new textures and more.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Composter
|Campfire
|Jigsaw Block
|Lectern
|Loom
|Stonecutter
|Flower Charge Banner Pattern
|Creeper Charge Banner Pattern
|Skull Charge Banner Pattern
|Thing Banner Pattern
|Field Masoned Banner Pattern
|Bordure Indented Banner Pattern
|Ravager Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Wandering Trader Spawn Egg BE
|Sweet Berries
|Shield
}}

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Composter]]s'''
* Currently have no functionality.
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Campfire]]s'''
* Currently have no functionality.
* Available through Experimental Gameplay.

'''[[Jigsaw block]]s'''
* Currently have no functionality, and can only be obtained via an inventory editor.

'''[[Lectern]]s'''
* Placing a book and quill or written book on the lectern allows multiple players to read it together.
* A book and quill can be read, but not edited when placed on a lectern.

'''[[Loom]]s'''
* Used to easily make patterns for banners.

'''[[Stonecutter]]s'''
* New stonecutters are only available through Experimental Gameplay.
* Still have no functionality.
* Old stonecutters are still available via an inventory editor.

'''[[Sweet berry bush]]es'''
* Can be found in {{BiomeLink|Taiga}} and {{BiomeLink|Snowy Taiga}} biomes.
* Can be planted from sweet berries.
* Have 4 growth stages.
* Drop 2-3 sweet berries when harvested.
* Available through Experimental Gameplay.

=== Items ===
'''[[Banner pattern]]s'''
* Made with the [[Loom]].
* Can be added to banners to apply designs.
* 6 types of banner patterns: Creeper Charge, Flower Charge, Skull Charge, Thing, Field Masoned, and Bordure Indented.

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Added illager beast and wandering trader spawn eggs, available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Sweet berries]]'''
* Collected from sweet berry bushes.
* Can be eaten or planted into bushes.
* Can be planted into the ground and grown into sweet berry bushes.

'''[[Shield]]s'''
* New tool that can be used to block most incoming attacks.
* Sneaking or mounting a mob activates the shield when equipped in either hand.
* Crafted with 6 [[planks]] and 1 [[iron ingot]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Wandering trader]]s'''
* A type of villager that appears at a village's gathering site periodically and stays for a period of 2–3 in-game days (40–60 minutes of real-life time). This trader offers items from a wide variety of different biomes, random dyes, and other rare materials.
* Accompanied by two [[Trader Llama|custom llamas]].
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Ravager|Illager beasts]]'''
* Available through Experimental Gameplay.
* Currently only have the basic AI.
* Drop a saddle when killed.

'''[[Cat]]'''
* Added a new skin: Jellie, the community cat contest winner.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Pillager outpost]]s'''
* Generate in the same biomes as villages, and pillagers respawn around the tower.
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* Can generate with tall foundation.
* Generate with black [[banner]]s, instead of illager banners.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Achievements]]'''
* Added a new achievement:
** ''Fruit on the Loom'' - Make a banner using an Enchanted Apple Stencil (20G)

=== Commands ===
; {{cmd|permission}}

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]]s'''
* Still under Experimental Gameplay and cannot be opened.
* Added crafting recipe.

'''[[Bell]]s'''
* Still under Experimental Gameplay.
* Improved and added placement features.

'''[[Blast furnace]]s and [[smoker]]s'''
* Still under Experimental Gameplay.
* Added crafting recipe.

'''[[Cartography table]]s'''
* Still under Experimental Gameplay.
* Added crafting recipe.

'''[[Chorus flower]]s'''
* Now break when shot with an arrow.

'''[[Crop]]s'''
* Now have placement sounds.

'''[[Dead bush]]es'''
* Can now be used as fuel.

'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Dispensers with shears in them can now shear sheep.

'''[[Grindstone]]s'''
* Still under Experimental Gameplay.
* Added crafting recipe.
* Updated texture.

'''[[Lantern]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.
* Can now be properly attached to the bottom or top of blocks.
* Now have animated textures.
* Added crafting recipe.

'''[[Leaves]]'''
* Now have a chance to drop 0–2 sticks when decaying.

'''[[Log]]s and [[stripped log]]s'''
* Have been renamed from "Wood" and "Stripped Wood".

'''[[Smithing table]]s'''
* Still under Experimental Gameplay.
* Updated texture.

'''[[Wet sponge]]s'''
* Now dry out immediately when placed in [[the Nether]].

'''[[Wood]] and [[stripped wood]]'''
* A log block with the bark texture on all 6 sides.
* Are no longer unused, and can now be crafted with 4 [[log]]s or [[stripped log]]s.

'''[[Carpet|White carpet]]s and [[glass pane|undyed glass panes]]'''
* Can now be dyed directly in the crafting table.

=== Items ===
'''[[Beetroot soup]] and [[Rabbit stew]]'''
* Now have shapeless crafting recipes.

'''[[Crossbow]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Cat]]s'''
* Feeding cats [[raw cod]] or [[raw salmon]] now replenishes their health.

'''[[Creeper]]s'''
* Now have a chance to drop a [[music disc]] when killed by a [[stray]], as well as a [[skeleton]].

'''JSON'''
* Mob events and behavior can now be scheduled using JSON.

'''[[Pillager]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.
* Added new sounds. ({{bug|MCPE-39111}}).

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Have been split into two mobs:
** New villagers spawn in new villages.
*** Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
** Old villagers still spawn in igloo basements.
* New villager behavior:
** Implemented some of the new villager schedule behaviors.
** Implemented new villager sleep behaviors.
** Villagers may now wander to the village outskirts.
** Villagers attempt to find a door when it rains during the day, but navigate to their bed at night.
** Updated and improved pathfinding.
** Villagers now have a visual-based trading system, and hold up the item they wish to trade.
** Villagers have new clothing to indicate their level, profession, and biome.
** Villagers now mingle together around gathering sites in the village.
** Librarians inspect bookshelves.
** Villagers can switch professions depending on the job site blocks available in the village.
*** Villagers now interact with beds and corresponding job site blocks.
* Added mason, green-coated (nitwit), and unemployed (no-overlay) villager professions.

'''[[Zombie villager]]s'''
* Split into 2 different mobs
** New zombie villagers have biome-specific and profession skin layers.
*** Available through Experimental Gameplay.
** Old zombie villagers still spawn in [[igloo]] basements.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Village]]s'''
* Have a new look, differing per biome.
* Added village job sites and gathering sites.
* Number of houses depends on beds.
* Taiga villages are now more common.
* Removed zombie villages, due to new village changes.
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* Can be located with both {{cmd|locate village}} and {{cmd|locate newvillage}}. {{cmd|locate village}} is not always guaranteed to locate a village, while {{cmd|locate newvillage}} always point to villages.
* No longer generate in Old world type.
* Meeting points generate with various bell types.
* Job and gathering sites, that villagers mingle around together, generate in villages.
** Job sites can be built by players by placing job site blocks in village boundaries.

'''[[Stronghold]]s'''
* Most strongholds no longer generate under village wells - they now generate under village meeting points.
** Available through Experimental Gameplay.
* Reduced the chance of strongholds generating under villages.

'''[[Igloo]]'''
* Now always generate with a red bed, regardless of the biome.

=== General ===
'''[[Texture Update]]'''
* The new vanilla textures are now set as the default pack.

'''Data-driven animation'''
* Refactored the animation system to support hierarchical animation, and treat animations and animation controllers as 'animations'.
* Updated JSON with new animation support, upgraded schema for actor definition, and included upgrades for animation controllers and actor definitions.
* Converted sheep and pigs to the new animation system.
* Move locators to bones.
* Blend state transitions.
* Removed cod lead locator.
* Renamed {{cd|ActorAnimation|d=to|ActorSkeletalAnimation}}.
* Initial poly mesh support.
* Added TextureMesh geometry.
* Flipping data-driven entities test to enable new entities to use {{cd|bind_pose_rotation}}.
* Events now have defined data objects containing all event data.
* Added new villager animations.

'''Data-driven models'''
* Added default parenting to the evoker nose, in line with over villager-derived mobs.

'''Entity scripting function'''
* Is no longer behind Experimental Gameplay.

'''Help'''
* Pressing help button links to the relevant how to play section.
* Updated the how to play section.

'''[[Particle]]s'''
* Can now be edited using standard JSON formatting.
* Renamed some particles include prefix {{cd|test_}} to {{cd|example_}}.
* Removed {{cd|test_mule}} and {{cd|test_sphere}}.

'''Permissions'''
* Improvements to the operator status and permission settings, with the added option to enable cheats or not.

'''[[Resource pack]]s'''
* Are now separate from world templates and can be updated independently in existing worlds.

'''Scripting system'''
* Players without scripting enabled now see an appropriate message if they try and join an incompatible server that has scripting enabled.
* Updating a player's position with scripting now correctly syncs with the player.
* Creating actors via script now avoids the spawning logic.
** This prevents hard-coded logic like ocelots spawning along with baby ocelots.
* Improved the message wording for players who get disconnected due to unsupported scripts.
* Allow events to fire without a defined event data object.
* Renamed Views to Actor/Entity Queries.
* Added sound events to the scripting API.
* Add Event Data to {{cd|load_ui}}.
* Custom UIs can now be made like regular in-game UI screens.
* Added 'Global Objects' to the scripting API.
* Refactored JavaScript object registration.
* Added the ability to enable and disable scripting error and warning logging.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes/performance'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay. 
* Fixed several crashes that could occur when loading the game. 
* Fixed several crashes that could occur when connecting to realms.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when repeatedly attempting to cancel joining a multiplayer game. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when rejoining the game in the End dimension. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when entering a portal on some servers. 
* Resource packs that are nested in an extra folder no longer cause the game to crash. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when adding a resource pack with a missing pack icon. 
* Stacking slabs to make a double slab no longer crashes the game. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox One if a player was not signed in correctly. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when closing a world and reentering it on Xbox One. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using a jukebox on Nintendo Switch. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when downloading or copying a large world on Nintendo Switch. 
* Fixed a crash when trying to launch the marketplace packs "City Cars" and "Mineville Film Studios" on mobile devices. 
* Fixed a crash that could happen after running scripts for a long period of time. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading large world templates. 
* Optimized particles to improve performance.
* Looping UI animations no longer increase memory usage over time. 
* Removing ticking areas from the game now correctly frees up used memory.
* Fixed a scripting crash that could occur when using '{{cd|SpawnParticleInWorld}}' events. 

'''General'''
* Fixed another issue that could cause the game to sometimes not load past the Minecraft splash screen on some devices. ({{bug|MCPE-35078}})
* Players are now informed if they are disconnected from Xbox Live when the Xbox One console is resumed from standby.
* Various fixes and improvements to the Marketplace sorting and search results. 
* Fixed an issue on Xbox One that would disable LAN games when the player did not have multiplayer permissions. 
* Fixed a bug with converted worlds on Nintendo Switch that prevented cross-platform multiplayer. ({{bug|MCPE-34641}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Players can once again travel through End gateway portals without suffocating and no longer encounter world loading issues as a result. ({{bug|MCPE-41533}}, {{bug|MCPE-40538}})
* Player position is now accurately saved when exiting and rejoining a world.
* Lightning no longer has a downward area of effect when hitting blocks, so no longer strike mobs sheltering underneath blocks.
* The descend button now works correctly when underwater and using touch controls. 
* Fixed a bug where players could respawn some distance away from their beds. ({{bug|MCPE-39261}})
* Fixed a bug where lava could hurt a player through block corners. ({{bug|MCPE-37726}})
* The re-center button on Minecraft VR has been mapped to Y now instead of X. 
* Players using Oculus Rift can no longer fly in Survival mode after swimming. ({{bug|MCPE-39833}})

'''World generation'''
* Trapdoors in shipwrecks are now correctly rotated. 
* Snow layers generate around grass and flowers again in snow biomes. ({{bug|MCPE-38018}})
* Strongholds now generate with the correct stair variants again. ({{bug|MCPE-39380}})
* Mutated birch forest biomes now generate with extra tall birch trees again. ({{bug|MCPE-29698}})
* The correct amount of white terracotta now generates in mesa biomes.

'''Mobs'''
* Reduced the number of drowned mobs that can spawn in an area. ({{bug|MCPE-34032}})
* Passive mobs now spawn on the correct block types. ({{bug|MCPE-39727}})
* Turtles no longer levitate above the ground. 
* Damage cooldown no longer hinders other mob attacks. 
* Wither skeletons and vex mobs can now be renamed with nametags. ({{bug|MCPE-20701}})
* Fixed the pathfinding for zombies chasing villagers inside buildings. ({{bug|MCPE-37424}})
* Fixed the wither's ranged and swoop attacks. ({{bug|MCPE-39773}})
* Skeletons once again attack iron golems. 
* Cats are no longer tempted by food when they are too far from the player. 
* Fixed an issue with the sword held by the vex mob. 
* Fixed sleep goal so mobs can get in beds that have blocks on the sides.
* Mobs can no longer destroy paintings if Mob Griefing is disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-38916}})

'''Blocks'''
* Bamboo saplings no longer destroy blocks above them as they grow. ({{bug|MCPE-39854}})
* 'Monster Egg' blocks are now named 'Infested' blocks to match Java Edition. 
* Infested bricks mined with silk touch now drop as its non-infested variant. 
* It is now possible to climb through snow layers placed on top of scaffolding. ({{bug|MCPE-39324}})
* Hanging banners no longer show as floor standing banner variants. ({{bug|MCPE-39507}})
* Scaffolding no longer gets left hanging unsupported when being placed rapidly. ({{bug|MCPE-38338}})
* Horizontal scaffolding extensions can now be placed over non-solid blocks correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-39296}})
* Fixed a bug where kelp would grow in horizontal flowing water. ({{bug|MCPE-37155}})

'''Items'''
* Items can no longer be duplicated in the crafting grid. ({{bug|MCPE-40253}})
* Fixed an exploit that allowed players to gain unlimited items from the recipe book. ({{bug|MCPE-41905}})
* The new dye types can now be used to dye shulker mobs. ({{bug|MCPE-40279}})

'''Graphical'''
* Players on split-screen no longer have limited visibility underwater. ({{bug|MCPE-39539}})
* Fixed a bug that could cause missing textures if the player suspended the game while it is still loading. 
* Fixed an issue that could cause lighting issues in chunks when flying around.
* Pandas eating bamboo now show correctly colored food particles. ({{bug|MCPE-38285}})
* Food held by pandas is now sized, positioned, and textured correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-39061}})
* Upside-down shulkers now have the correct opening animation. ({{bug|MCPE-40110}})
* Graphics no longer become corrupted when disabling texel anti-aliasing on Nintendo Switch. ({{bug|MCPE-34820}})
* Colored beacon beam textures no longer appear compressed. 
* Mobs no longer spawn with heart particles. 
* Weapons held by armor stands are now the correct size. ({{bug|MCPE-39064}})
* Fixed skeleton melee attack animation. 
* Firework stars no longer appear black in the Creative inventory. 
* Fixed animations for cow and parrot mobs. 
* Ender dragon attacks now show a particle trail. 
* Cornflowers now render correctly in item frames. 
* Existing armor stands no longer turn white.
* Fixed the spider leg animation in the Dwarven Mining Company marketplace map.
* Fixed wither skeleton model geometry issue that was affecting some Marketplace content. 
* Fixed the head rotation of pigmen when non-standard texture packs are used. ({{bug|MCPE-40629}})

'''User interface'''
* Menu buttons no longer stay highlighted after being selected ({{bug|MCPE-37640}})
* Worlds no longer show singleplayer only warning message when multiplayer is enabled ({{bug|MCPE-39194}})
* Texture packs applied to a freshly created world are now displayed in the active list 
* Global resource packs no longer show in the active packs list if they are not applied to a specific world 
* The 'Unlock Template World Options' popup no longer has a placeholder message 
* Fixed an issue with the black and pink missing texture icon that would sometimes appear in the marketplace 
* Players are prompted to redownload packs if they have been applied to a world but removed from the cache 
* Players who are disconnected while downloading a multiplayer pack no longer get stuck on the saving world screen 
* Fixed an issue that could cause the player to get stuck on the 'Converting World' screen if the game is suspended 
* Enabling 'Touch only affects the hotbar' on Nintendo Switch now works as expected: ({{bug|MCPE-38614}})
** Controller sensitivity setting (touching the screen no longer interferes with controller movement)​.
** Removed increased build distance in creative including place/mine tooltips​.
** When the last hotbar slot selected, touching the screen no longer switches to 8th slot.
* Fixed the ability to unblock players from Realms on the members list for pages two and above.

'''Commands'''
* Giving a cobblestone wall variant with commands no longer crashes the game. ({{bug|MCPE-41657}})
* Chest minecarts now drop their contents if destroyed with the {{cmd|kill}} command. 
* Multiple commands run from Functions now run from the correct point of execution. ({{bug|MCPE-38983}}, {{bug|MCPE-39785}})
* Players no longer receive command feedback when cheats are disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-39590}})
* Fixed an issue related to scoreboard not showing the correct entries. 
* Using scoreboard selectors no longer adds extra characters to player names. 
* Scoreboards now work correctly with custom-named entities. 
* Scoreboard data is now saved more accurately when exiting a world.
* Various fixes and improvements to the {{cd|randomTickSpeed}} function.

'''Add-ons / script engine'''
* Renamed blocks in resource packs now keep their custom names. 
* Packs missing '{{cd|experimental_custom_ui}}' don't allow loading UI anymore. 
* Script queries no longer show error messages when detecting dropped item entities. ({{bug|MCPE-40437}})
* '{{cd|minecraft:look_at}}' component now has consistent naming between scripting and JSON. 
* The scripting event '{{cd|entity_created}}' now fires correctly. 
* Fixed an issue with the scripting event '{{cd|isValidEntity}}' not working as expected. 
* Fixed the '{{cd|damage_sensor}}' scripting component that was not working as expected. 
* Scripting can now be used to attach particles to mobs correctly.
* Fixed issue of region filters not working if inside a custom spawn event. 
* Renamed the '{{cd|player_attacked_actor}}' scripting event to '{{cd|player_attacked_entity}}'. 
* Scripting '{{cd|isValidEntity}}' now correctly checks for valid entities only. 
* Fixed incorrect results for '{{cd|hasComponent}}' on some entity components.</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|OvadMIP4ddU}}

== Trivia ==
* With only two beta versions released for it, 1.10.0 has the least number of beta versions across all major Bedrock Edition updates.

== See also ==
* [[Java Edition 1.14]]
* [[PlayStation 4 Edition 1.90]]
* [[Education Edition 1.12]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.10.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.10.0]]
[[ru:1.10.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock 1.10.0]]
[[zh:基岩版1.10.0]]