{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.20.8022.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.80.22
| image = Bedrock 1.20.80.22 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.80.22.png
| build = 22814459
| editorver = 0.5.9
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952008022（armeabi-v7a，34）<br>
962008022（x86，34）<br>
972008022（arm64-v8a，34）<br>
982008022（x86_64，34）<br>
| date = March 14, 2024
| server = 1.20.80.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.80.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.80.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.80
| prevparent = 1.20.73
| prev = Preview 1.20.80.21
| next = Preview 1.20.80.23
| nextparent = 1.20.81
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.20.80.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.80.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.80]], released on March 14, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/24981522422669|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.20.80.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 14, 2024}}</ref><ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-preview-1-20-80-22|Minecraft Preview 1.20.80.22|March 14, 2024|Matt Gartzke}}</ref> which adds the [[mace]], [[Breeze Rod|breeze rods]], and [[Heavy Core|heavy cores]] as [[experiments]], and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Game Tips]]'''
*Added hints for [[jumping]], [[flying]], [[sneaking]], and how to use and {{ctrl|place}} a [[crafting table]].
*Added a hint on how to open the [[inventory]] on a touch device.

'''[[World Options]]'''
*Added a [[Hardcore|Harcore]]{{sic}} switch. It cannot be toggled yet.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Mob]]s'''
*Added spawn categories, which will be used in the future for [[mob spawning]].
**Spawn categories have been enabled in entity [[behavior pack]] files, but are not yet functional.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|titleraw}} and {{cmd|tellraw}}'''
* Updated to include support for rendering input key glyphs.

=== General ===
'''Graphical'''
* Increased maximum render distance to 36 for Xbox Series X|S consoles.

===Items===
'''[[Shield]]'''
* Shields can now partially block damage dealt by [[guardian]]s and [[elder guardian]]s’ laser attack.

===Mobs===
'''[[Wolf Armor]]'''
* Can now partially block damage dealt by guardians and elder guardians’ laser attack.
* Wolves wearing wolf armor now trigger post-hit damage immunity, preventing the item’s rapid destruction by continuous damage sources like [[lava]], [[slime]]s, and [[magma cube]]s.
* Sounds have been updated.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Moved {{cd|EntityType}} and {{cd|EntityTypes}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.11.0}}
* Released {{cd|playMusic}}, {{cd|Player.queueMusic}}, {{cd|Player.stopMusic}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.11.0}}
* Removed {{cd|BlockAreaSize}} from {{cd|beta}} and replaced usages with {{cd|Vector3}}.
* Renamed parameter {{cd|itemCategory}} in {{cd|getItemCooldown}} and {{cd|player.startItemCooldown}} to {{cd|cooldownCategory}}.
* Changed type to only {{cd|EnchantmentType}} to follow API guidelines.
* Added {{cd|EnchantmentSlot}} and slots to {{cd|beta}} for determining the enchantable slots of an item.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Update 1.21",  "Render Dragon Features for Creators", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.

=== Additions ===
====Blocks====
'''[[Heavy Core]]'''
* A mysterious, dense block which can be combined with a [[breeze rod]] to craft a [[mace]].

====Items====
'''[[Breeze Rod]]'''
* Dropped by the [[breeze]].
* Can be crafted into 4 [[wind charge]]s.
* Can be used with the [[heavy core]] to craft a [[mace]].

'''[[Mace]]'''
* A new heavy weapon that can be crafted from a breeze rod and a heavy core.
* Using the weapon while falling can increase the damage output. The higher the player falls, the more damage is dealt.
** This can be done by jumping towards the target and hitting them before the player hits the ground.
** Successfully striking a target in this way will negate any damage accumulated from the fall, similar to how a [[wind charge]] works.
** Other entities near the struck enemy will receive knockback.
* Can be repaired with [[breeze rod]]s using an [[anvil]].
* Players can use a mace in combination with [[wind charge]]s to launch up and deliver devastating smash attacks on their enemies.

'''[[Pottery Sherd]]s'''
* Added 3 new pottery sherds, that can be found on [[decorated pot]]s inside of [[trial chambers]]:
** [[Flow Pottery Sherd]]
** [[Guster Pottery Sherd]]
** [[Scrape Pottery Sherd]]

'''[[Smithing Template]]s'''
* Added two new smithing templates, that are exclusively obtained from [[vault]]s:
** [[Bolt Armor Trim]]
** [[Flow Armor Trim]]

'''[[Banner Pattern]]s'''
* Added two new banner patterns:
** [[Flow Banner Pattern]]
** [[Guster Banner Pattern]]

====Technical====
'''Graphical'''
* Improved texture filtering for renderchunks to smooth the transition between LODs.
* Added a new feature to the Deferred Technical Preview: Sky Reflections. 
** This new effect will reflect the sky on surfaces depending on their roughness and other surface properties.
** Scenes without [[sky light]] is not affected, such as [[cave]]s, [[the Nether]] and [[The End]].
** Only supports [[block]]s as of now.

===Changes===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Vault]]'''
*The loot tables of Vaults in Trial Chambers have been updated to address some inventory management issues.
** One player will now get no more than 1 unstackable item per vault.
** One player will more often get rewards which can stack together.
** [[Horse armor]] and [[saddle]]s have been removed from the loot table.
* Can now eject:
** [[Wind Charge]]s
** [[Bolt Armor Trim]]
** [[Flow Armor Trim]]
** [[Banner Pattern|Flow Banner Pattern]]
** [[Banner Pattern|Guster Banner Pattern]]
** [[Heavy Core]]
** [[Honey Bottle]]
** [[Arrow]]
** [[Arrow of Poison]]
** [[Golden Apple]]

====Mobs====
'''[[Breeze]]'''
*Now breathe with its eyes instead of feet to avoid drowning in water.
*Now drops 1-2 breeze rods instead of wind charges when killed by a player.
**The number of breeze rods dropped is affected by [[looting]] enchantments.

====Technical====
'''[[API]]'''
*Added {{cd|minecraft:custom_components}} block component under the Beta APIs feature flag.
*Added {{cd|BlockComponentStepOnEvent}} for {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|BlockRegistry}} for {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|WorldInitializeBeforeEvent}}.
*Added {{cd|BlockCustomComponent}}.
*Dimension:
**Added function {{cd|getBlocks(volume: BlockVolumeBase, filter: BlockFilter, allowUnloadedChunks?: boolean): ListBlockVolume}} - Gets the blocks in a volume if it matches the filter.
**Added function {{cd|containsBlock(volume: BlockVolumeBase, filter: BlockFilter, allowUnloadedChunks?: boolean): boolean}} - Returns {{cd|true}} if the block in volume matches the filter, {{cd|false}} otherwise.
*Moved {{cd|ItemCooldownComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to 1.10.0
*Added {{cd|BlockComponentStepOffEvent}} for {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|onStepOff}} to {{cd|BlockCustomComponent}}.
*Added {{cd|BlockComponentRandomTickEvent}} for {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|onRandomTick}} to {{cd|BlockCustomComponent}}.
*{{cd|StructureManager}}:
**Added {{cd|getIds(): string}} - Returns a list of identifiers including all structures saved to memory and the world.
**Changed the default save mode of {{cd|createEmpty}} to {{cd|StructureSaveMode.Memory}}.

====World Generation====
'''[[Trial Chambers]]'''
* Added new chambers and variations, with new challenges.
** Remade {{cd|chamber_9}}, and renamed it to {{cd|slanted}}.
** Remade {{cd|chamber_3}}, and renamed it to {{cd|pedestal}}.
* Added flow, guster, and scrape [[pottery sherd]]s to the [[decorated pot]]s in the decor structure pool.
* Now appear more frequently in the corridors.
* Changed the layout of the blocks around [[vault]]s.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.80.22 Preview
|;old
|31389|Beds that span a chunk border can partially break or become invisible during chunk loading
|123455|Bridging while looking forward causes blocks to most of the time place twice
|162190|{{cmd|/give}} is slow when no target is found
|178442|Armadillo walking animation is slower and odd compared to Java
|179153|{{cmd|/hud}} command hides HUD between worlds
|;previous
|178101|Day of the week Sunday is incorrectly translated into Russian (in Realms Stories, Timeline)
|179254|Wolf armor can't be repaired on anvil
|179255|Shield rendering become glitchy while holding Wolf Armor
|179264|Breaking a wolf armor produces no particles
|otherissuescount=7}}
'''Others'''
*Reduced frame stutter when encountering a Character Creator skin in-game.
*Players no longer crawl after sneaking onto a Bed with a 1.5 block gap above it.
*Fixed instance of singular ‘Realm Stories members’ to plural ‘Realms Stories members’ to be consistent across screens. (Preview only)
*Fixed a softlock that would occur when navigating to Realms Stories from the in-game menu while the Death Screen is active. (Preview only)
*Fixed issue where narration wasn’t reading Medium Realm Event posts as expected.
*Fixed an issue where {{cd|should_update_bones_and_effects_offscreen}} and {{cd|should_update_effects_offscreen}} were being ignored.
*Fixed a bug where the delete function would not remove structures that were previously saved to the world but not loaded.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.80 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.80.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.20.80.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.80.22]]
[[ru:Preview 1.20.80.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.80.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.80.22]]