{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.210.58 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.210.58.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.21058.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.21058.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.210.58<br>
|build=5349476
|parent=1.16.210
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' February 3, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.201
|prev=beta 1.16.210.57
|next=beta 1.16.210.59
|nextparent=1.16.220
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.210.58''' is the eighth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.210]], released on February 3, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360056026212|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.210.58 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 3, 2021}}</ref> which brought technical changes and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|mixer}}'''
* Now removed entirely from the game again.

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Broadcasting options are now completely removed from the game again, since Mixer streaming services are no longer available.

=== Technical ===
'''Component Variables'''
* {{cd|main_hand}} - An optional object storing optional transform data for {{cd|first_person}} and {{cd|third_person}} for the player's right hand.
* {{cd|off_hand}} - An optional object storing optional transform data for {{cd|first_person}} and {{cd|third_person}} for the player's left hand.
* {{cd|first_person}} - An optional object storing 3 vectors 'position', 'rotation', 'scale' used to build the first person matrix.
* {{cd|third_person}} - An optional object storing 3 vectors 'position', 'rotation', 'scale' used to build the third person matrix.

'''Render Offsets Component'''
* Simple items, like swords or pickaxes, can have an optional offset applied to them to modify the way they are rendered.
** Note this component should not be added to an attachable item.

== Fixes ==
'''Accessibility'''
* The screen reader now properly announces edit/create character button text for each character on the profile screen.

'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed a number of crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when opening the achievements screen when the anti-aliasing setting was set to 1 ({{bug|MCPE-110164}}).

'''General'''
* Fixed ticks not affecting blocks changing states - this means that things like crops and saplings will once again grow correctly ({{bug|MCPE-116221}}).
* Fixed the player being unable to interact with a tool in their inventory after breaking blocks with it in survival ({{bug|MCPE-115341}}).
* Fixed dried kelp block bottom and carried textures so that rope pixels are aligned ({{bug|MCPE-35476}}).
* Fixed an issue where snow accumulated in lines with certain simulation distances ({{bug|MCPE-73468}}).
* TNT submerged in water will once again launch players in Survival mode.
* Fixed an issue where achievement names and descriptions would not be translated, independent of language selection. ({{bug|MCPE-85813}}).
* The online status of cross-platform friends' shown on the invite screen will now update when a change has been detected ({{bug|MCPE-70004}}).
* Fixed an issue that prevented achievement rewards from showing correctly after changing the language setting.
* Owned and purchasable skins no longer get mixed into different categories while offline.
* Emote title no longer shows previously previewed emote upon re-entering tab.
* Updated the in-game links to the feedback site and bug tracker.

'''Graphics'''
* Goat and other tinted spawn eggs now look correct when held in hand ({{bug|MCPE-104145}}).
* Fixed an issue with screen resolution which could flicker when resizing a window ({{bug|MCPE-69721}}).
* Entities that use material state "Blending" now render correctly behind transparent parts.

'''Technical'''
* On the "Dragons!" Marketplace map, behavior animation controller will no longer stop working after reloading the map with a saddled dragon.
* Disabled loading of entities in custom biome features.
* Fixed UVs of data-driven blocks to not be slightly shrunk, which caused texel warping.
* Fixed data driven blocks being pushed by pistons not working correctly.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.58]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.210.58]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.210.58]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.210.58]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.210.58 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.210.58]]