{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.6023.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.60.23<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.21.60.23 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.60.23.png
| build = 29647159
| editorver = 0.8.2
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952106023 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962106023 (x86, 34)<br />
972106023 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982106023 (x86_64, 34)
| date = December 4, 2024
| server = 1.21.60.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.60.23.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.60.23.zip Linux]<br>
| parent = 1.21.60
| prevparent = 1.21.51
| prev = Preview 1.21.60.21
| next = Preview 1.21.60.24
| nextparent = 1.21.61
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.60.23''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.60.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.60]], released on December 4, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/32412964700813-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-60-23|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.60.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 4, 2024}}</ref> which updates the vegetation generation in the Overworld and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''UI'''
*Touch controls: Touch button for Pick Block is now available for both Survival and Creative.
*Removed the Sign In, Profile, Inbox and Gathering buttons from the Start Menu in [[Trial]] Mode.
*Removed the Profile button from the Pause Menu in Trial Mode.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Eyeblossom]]s and [[Pale Moss Carpet]]s '''
*They no longer generate inside [[pale oak]] tree trunks.

'''[[Vegetation]]'''
*The vegetation of many [[Overworld]] biomes has been updated to more closely match {{JE}} and align with the intended look and feel of Minecraft:
**Overworld (applies to all biomes):
***[[Pumpkin]]s now generate in larger patches.
***[[Dandelion]]s are now alternated with [[poppies]] when generating in flower patches.
***[[Sugar cane]]s no longer generate through other blocks.
**[[Plains]]:
***[[Short grass]] now generates more frequently and in larger amounts.
***[[Tall grass]] now generates less frequently but in larger patches
***Flower patches now contain mixed flowers, are larger and generate more frequently
**[[Sunflower Plains]]:
***[[Sunflower]]s now generate in more cohesive patches.
**[[Mushroom Fields]]:
***[[Mushroom]]s now generate in larger patches.
**[[Savanna]]:
***[[Short grass]] now generates more frequently and in larger amounts.
***[[Tall grass]] now generates less frequently but in larger patches.
**[[Flower Forest]]:
***[[Tree]]s are now denser.
***[[Flower]]s now generate in more cohesive patches.
**[[Taiga]]:
***Small ferns now generate more frequently.
***[[Large fern]]s now generate less frequently.
***[[Sweet berry bush]]es now generate in larger patches.
**[[Old Growth Spruce Taiga]] and [[Old Growth Pine Taiga]]:
***Mushrooms now generate in larger and more cohesive patches.
***[[Fern]]s now generate more frequently.
***Sweet berry bushes patches now generate.
**[[Jungle]]:
***Trees are now denser.
***Big jungle trees now generate more frequently.
***[[Jungle bush]]es are now larger.
***[[Melon]] patches now generate more frequently.
**[[Bamboo Jungle]]:
***[[Bamboo]] now generates in larger and denser patches.
***The width of bamboo is now consistent across the entire plant.
***Trees are now denser.
***Big jungle trees now generate more frequently.
***Jungle bushes are now larger.
**[[Sparse Jungle]]:
***[[Bamboo]] no longer generates
***[[Fern]]s and Short Grass now generate more frequently
***Jungle Bushes are now larger
***Melon patches now generate more frequently
**[[Meadow]]:
***[[Short grass]] now generates more frequently.
***[[Tall grass]] now generates more frequently.
***Flowers now generate in patches instead of being homogeneously spread across the biome.
**[[Swamp]]:
***[[Blue orchid]]s now generate more frequently and in larger patches.
***Swamp oaks now generate slightly more frequently.
***Swamp oaks no longer generate in direct contact with the ground.
***[[Lily pad]]s now generate more frequently.
**[[Mangrove Swamp]]:
***Mangroves are now sparser.
***Mangroves now generate over water.
***Lily pads now generate more frequently.
**[[Badlands]] and [[Desert]]:
***[[Dead bush]]es now generate more frequently.
**[[Ocean]]s (except Frozen Ocean):
***[[Kelp]] now generates more frequently and in denser patches.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Add-On]]s and Script Engine'''
*Added the ability to define the order for the items for the creative inventory and recipe book, called the crafting item catalog, for new items added by packs. New items can either merge with existing groups, create new groups with your own item for the icon, or just become added as loose items without a group. This catalog should be saved as {{cd|item_catalog/crafting_item_catalog.json}} in player's behavior pack.
*Item and Block json files now require a namespace for group names in the {{cd|menu_category}} object. 
*Added new Creator toggle setting "Show Content Log GUI On Error During Load".
**This setting with make the Content Log GUI automatically open and display after loading into a world and there was either warnings or errors found during the loading process.
**This setting is disabled in the [[Editor]].

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Fence gate blocks use state {{cd|minecraft:cardinal_direction}} instead of {{cd|minecraft:direction}}. Uses string values ({{cd|north}}, {{cd|south}}, {{cd|east}}, {{cd|west}}).

'''[[Command]]s'''
*The {{cd|mine}} overload of the {{cmd|loot}} command has been moved to outside of "Upcoming Creator Features" experiments.
*The {{cmd|kick}} command now allows use of target selectors on Realms.

'''Components'''
*Added the {{cd|minecraft:renders_when_invisible}} component, which enables entities to render even when invisible.
**Appropriate rendering behavior can then be specified in the corresponding {{cd|minecraft:client_entity}}.

'''Network Protocol'''
*Added {{cd|ActorFlags::RENDERS_WHEN_INVISIBLE}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Upcoming Creator Features", and "Aim Assist" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
*Added {{cd|scriptEvent}} method to system object which sends a script event similar to the {{cmd|scriptevent}} command to {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|NamespaceNameError}} error which validates namespace usage to {{cd|beta}}.
*Added {{cd|NamespaceNameErrorReason}} enum which shows the types of issues that namespace validation can run into to {{cd|beta}}.
*Added new function {{cd|collectPluginStats}} to {{cd|@minecraft/debug-utilities}} which will return the types and counts of all active script objects.
**Removed {{cmd|script watchdog exportstats}} command, deprecated in favor of script API.
*Added {{cd|setDynamicProperties}} method to {{cd|World}}, {{cd|Entity}}, {{cd|ItemStack}} and {{cd|ContainerSlot}}.
*Added enum {{cd|LiquidType}}:
<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
export enum LiquidType {
    Water = 'Water'
}
</syntaxhighlight>
*Added four new bindings to Script Block API (Beta)
**{{cd|Block::canBeDestroyedByLiquidSpread}}
**{{cd|Block::isLiquidBlocking}}
**{{cd|Block::liquidSpreadCausesSpawn}}
**{{cd|Block::liquidCanFlowFromDirection}}
*Added three new bindings to Script Block Permutation API (Beta)
**{{cd|BlockPermutation::canBeDestroyedByLiquidSpread}}
**{{cd|BlockPermutation::isLiquidBlocking}}
**{{cd|BlockPermutation::liquidSpreadCausesSpawn}}

'''Commands'''
*Place: Entities saved within structures will now be placed unless specified.
*Added two subcommands to the {{cmd|place}} command behind the "Upcoming Creator Features" Experiment toggle:
**{{cmd|place feature}}
**{{cmd|place featurerule}}

'''Creator'''
*Added support for {{cd|ItemTags}} in {{cd|match_tool}} loot table conditions behind the "Upcoming Creator Features" Experiment toggle.

'''Gameplay'''
*Added the option to limit yaw rotations on all cameras with an orbit component.

'''Graphical'''
*Add bilinear upscaling option.
*Enabled the Deferred Technical Preview for PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4 in Preview.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''Aim Assist'''
*Changed aim-assist preset item settings to reference categories by unique namespace Ids globally instead of via name in a {{cd|categories}} list.

'''API'''
*Moved the following methods from beta to 1.17.0:
**{{cd|Block::isWaterlogged}}
**{{cd|Block::setWaterlogged}}

'''Molang'''
*Moved {{cd|query.last_input_mode_is_any}} to stable. It takes one or more arguments ({{cd|keyboard_and_mouse}}, {{cd|touch}}, {{cd|gamepad}}, or {{cd|motion_controller}}). If the last input used is any of the specified string values, returns 1.0. Otherwise returns 0.0. Available on the Client (Resource Packs) only.
*Moved {{cd|query.touch_only_affects_hotbar}} to stable. It returns 1.0 if the touch input only affects the touchbar, otherwise returns 0.0. Available on the Client (Resource Packs) only.

'''Scripting API'''
*Moved enum {{cd|InputMode}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
*Moved class {{cd|InputInfo}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
**Moved property {{cd|lastInputModeUsed}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
**Moved property {{cd|touchOnlyAffectsHotbar}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
*Class {{cd|Player}}
**Moved property {{cd|inputInfo}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
*Moved class {{cd|PlayerInputModeChangeAfterEvent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
*Moved class {{cd|PlayerInputModeChangeAfterEventSignal}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
*Class {{cd|WorldAfterEvents}}
**Moved property {{cd|playerInputModeChange}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.
*Moved class {{cd|InvalidEntityError}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.17.0}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.60.23 Preview
|;old
|36429|Named banner loses name when broken
|74879|Some Nether Brick variants don't have the new sounds
|76004|Dispenser unable to place Shulker Box under water
|91033|Twisting Vines and Weeping Vines drop rate is not affected by the Fortune enchantment
|91452|Z-fighting when looking at lily pads from a distance and at certain angles
|102412|Sunflower slightly glitches after X/Z ±262,144
|121983|After y {{=}} -10 the heights of the screen edges darken
|122695|Sunflowers are flickering when moving
|139903|Meadows generates less grass and flowers in Bedrock Edition
|141364|World generates less grass compared to Java Edition
|141447|Meadows generate incorrect decorations
|152452|Sweet berry bushes do not generate in the Old Growth Pine Taiga and Old Growth Spruce Taiga biomes
|153748|Mangrove swamps are much less dense in Bedrock than in Java
|176407|Can't place blocks on interactable blocks when flying down on mobile
|178461|Client-Side Chunk Caching Error Leading to Block Entity Anomalies
|188040|Some suspicious stew's effect duration is still different from Java
|188217|Pale oak leaves once again have incorrect {{cd|ambient_occlusion_exponent}} value
|188259|The eyes of creakings aren't visible when creakings have the invisibility effect
|;previous
|188547|Magma Cube texture broken with some marketplace resource packs
|188460|Filter Profanity option is listed in the Pause section
|188517|Game crashes when opening the Dressing Room or Marketplace
|188522|Game crashes if you try to open the dressing room or marketplace while offline.
|188585|Some pause menu buttons don't appear in the Cartoon, Halloween, and Steampunk resource packs
|otherissuescount=8}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed an issue where optional and required resource packs couldn't be downloaded when joining a multiplayer game if it was cancelled on the first download and join attempt.
*Inbox messages with long content are now scrollable with gamepad immediately after entering the screen.
*Fixed "An unknown error has occurred" when downloading resource packs under specific circumstances.
*Suspicious stews with the weakness effect acquired from shipwrecks and trading with villagers now apply the weakness effect for 7 seconds when consumed.
*Fixed a bug that would cause messages to report double the items that match the criteria when using the {{cmd|clear}} command with a max count of 0.
*Fixed a bug where {{cd|Block.setWaterlogged}} would create a water source that does not flow.
*Resolved a crash that could occur when using {{cd|top_layer_modification}} in custom jigsaw structures.
*Resolved a crash that could occur when entering the nether with a custom jigsaw structure in the nether.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.60 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.60.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.60.23]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.60.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.60.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.60.23]]