{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.100.55.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.10055.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.10055.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.100.55<br>
|build=4671616
|parent=1.16.100
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' September 10, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.61
|prev=beta 1.16.100.54
|next=beta 1.16.100.56
|nextparent=1.16.101
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.100.55''' is the sixth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.100]], released on September 10, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360049002892|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.100.55 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 10, 2020}}</ref> which brought more parity from {{el|je}}, and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Observer]]s'''
* No longer get stuck in an active state when moved by [[pistons]].

'''[[Shroomlight]]s'''
* Can now be composted.

=== Items ===

'''[[Banner Pattern]]s'''
* The "thing" banner pattern can now be crafted at the [[loom]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Camera]]'''
* Can no longer be obtained by using {{cmd|give}} command.

'''[[Piglin]]s and [[Piglin Brute]]s'''
* Now keep their [[crossbow]]s or [[axe|golden axe]]s (respectively) when zombified.

'''[[Zoglin]]s'''
* Changed baby zoglin's model to match ''Java Edition''.

=== General ===
'''[[Add-ons]] and Script Engine'''
* Bandwidth optimization: make sure level event packets only broadcast locally.
* Spatial Bandwidth Optimizations are now exposed through a component, {{cd|minecraft:conditional_bandwidth_optimization}}.
* Spatial Bandwidth Optimizations are now utilized by every actor using {{cd|minecraft:conditional_bandwidth_optimization}}.
* Added the selector component to raw text which can be used to print entity names in commands such as {{cmd|tellraw}} and {{cmd|titleraw}}.
* Structures are no longer cut off when loaded using the {{cmd|structure}} command.

'''[[Experimental Gameplay]]'''
* Toggle has been revamped.
** Added "Custom Biome Add-Ons", "Experimental Scripting Add-Ons", "Experimental Molang Features", and "Next Gameplay Update" toggle.<ref>{{tweet|Mega_Spud|1304085092160200704|Also, this! These have just been added to the UI for now, we'll keep you updated when we're adding new and exciting things to test!}}</ref>

'''[[Title Screen|Menu Screen]]'''
* Added [[Mojang Studios]] logo splash screen for Android devices.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-79353}}</ref>

'''Technical'''
* FMOD music channel now sets its priority to 0 when music is played to prevent FMOD virtual channel from stealing it when a regular sound is played in game (default priority is 128)

== Fixes ==
'''Performance and Stability'''
* Game no longer crashes if a player opens a shulker box they're standing on after rejoining a multiplayer session.
* Fixed crash when using {{cmd|fill}} command with portal to fill huge amount of blocks.

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Baby zoglins now have oversized heads. ({{bug|MCPE-65454}})
* Shroomlight block can now be used with the composter. ({{bug|MCPE-82999}})
* Crimson fungus and warped fungus can now be placed on mycelium blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-88588}})
* Observers will no longer get stuck in an active state when moved by a piston. ({{bug|MCPE-61175}})
* The "Thing" banner can now be crafted at the loom. ({{bug|MCPE-70449}})
* All expected blocks and items can now be composted again. ({{bug|MCPE-94671}})

'''General'''
* Portal blocks placed with {{cmd|setblock}} or {{cmd|fill}} commands that are not part of a valid portal structure will only exist for 1 second before they are removed.
* Foxes will no longer take damage when falling on berries. ({{bug|MCPE-82273}})
* Text and background for the title command (Title, Subtitle, and Actionbar) have been adjusted and spaced out.
* Dressing room now shows cached Character Creator items when offline.
* 24 bit PNGs without an alpha channel are no longer accepted as valid custom skins. ({{bug|MCPE-50094}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Boots enchanted with Soul Speed no longer become stuck on mobs or the player after breaking. ({{bug|MCPE-75375}})
* Piglin brutes preserve equipment when zombified. ({{bug|MCPE-83683}})

'''User Interface'''
* The smithing table screen now contains hammer icon and UI elements appear correctly when using the "Pocket" UI profile setting. ({{bug|MCPE-79541}})

'''New Achievement Screens'''
* Made the reward frame on the list item the same as the art frame.
* Improved the tap visual feedback.
* Decreased safe zone size.
* Fixed an issue where it was impossible to move focus away from Back button using a keyboard.
* Fixed an issue where the new achievement screens would sometimes incorrectly apply safe zone along the split in split screen mode, instead of just at the window edges.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.55]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.55]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.100.55]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.55]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.100.55]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.100.55 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.100.55]]