{{Infobox version
|title=v1.14.0
|vernum=1.14
|server=1.14.0.9
|internal=
'''PS4''': 1.99<br>'''Android''': 1.14.0.9<br>'''Windows 10''': 1.14.9.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.9.70
|image=Bedrock 1.14.0.png
|edition=Bedrock
|name=[[Buzzy Bees]]
|date=
'''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire OS, Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Gear VR, Xbox One, PS4''' – December 10, 2019<br>
'''Nintendo Switch''' – December 11, 2019
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.14.0.9.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.14.0.9.zip Linux]
|prevparent=1.13.0
|prev=1.13.3
|next=1.14.0.12
|nextparent=1.16.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/Buzzy Bees}}

'''1.14.0''', the first release of '''[[Buzzy Bees]]''', is a major update to {{el|be}} released on December 10–11, 2019, alongside [[Java Edition 1.15]].<ref name="release">{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360037105792|title=Minecraft - Buzzy Bees - 1.14.0 (Bedrock)|date=December 10, 2019}}</ref> It adds [[bee]]s and bee-related [[item]]s, such as [[honey block]]s and [[beehive]]s. It also marks the arrival of Bedrock Edition on PlayStation 4, discontinuing the ''[[PlayStation 4 Edition]]''<ref>{{Mcnet|ps4-news|Bedrock is coming to PS4|December 9, 2019}}</ref> and hence [[Legacy Console Edition]] as a whole.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Beehive
|Bee Nest
|Honey Block
|Honeycomb Block
|Honey Bottle
|Honeycomb
|Bee Spawn Egg Revision 2
}}

=== Blocks ===
'''{{BlockSprite|beehive}} [[Beehive]]s'''
* Crafted with 6 [[planks]] and 3 honeycombs.
* Function the same as bee nests, but does not need a [[Silk Touch]] enchanted tool to be dropped.

'''{{BlockSprite|bee-nest}} [[Bee nest]]s'''
* Spawn naturally in [[flower forest]]s, [[plains]], and [[sunflower plains]] biomes.
* Can house up to 3 bees.
* Fill up with honey.
** Have a max honey level of 5.
* Can be obtained by using a Silk Touch enchanted tool.

'''{{BlockSprite|honeycomb-block}} [[Honeycomb block]]s'''
* Crafted with 4 honeycombs.
* Are purely decorative.

'''{{BlockSprite|honey-block}} [[Honey block]]s'''
* Crafted with 4 honey bottles.
* Drastically reduce movement speed and jump height.
* Can be climbed down, and will drag anything on them when moved by a piston.
* Do not stick to slime blocks.
* Reduce fall damage by 80%.

=== Items ===
'''{{ItemSprite|honey-bottle}} [[Honey bottle]]s'''
* Can be drunk by using it, restoring {{hunger|6}} hunger points.
** Drinking one will also remove the [[poison]] effect.
* Can be used to craft [[sugar]] and [[honey block]]s.
* Obtained by using a bottle on full bee hives/nests.

'''{{ItemSprite|honeycomb}} [[Honeycomb]]s'''
* Obtained by using [[shears]] on full bee hives/nests.
* Can be used to craft bee hives and honeycomb blocks.

'''{{ItemSprite|spawn-egg}} [[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Added {{ItemSprite|bee-spawn-egg}} bee spawn egg.

=== Mobs ===
'''{{EntitySprite|bee}} [[Bee]]s'''
* Have {{health|10}} health.
* Live in groups near hives and nests.
** If a bee does not have a home nest, it will wander around until it finds one.
* Can be bred using any [[flower]].
* Adult and baby bees will pollinate flowers, then go back to nests and hives and make honey.
* Bees can make plants grow faster if they pass above it after pollinating flowers.
* Attack in a swarm if provoked, have a baby or if honey is taken from nests/hives without using a campfire.
** When they attack, they give [[Poison]] to the target and die 50-60 seconds after attacking.
* Are affected by [[Bane of Arthropods]].

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Achievements]]'''
{{Load achievements|Bee our guest; Total Beelocation; Sticky Situation}}

=== Command format ===
'''[[Game rule]]s'''
* Added {{code|showtags}} gamerule. {{more info}}

=== General ===
* Added support for Bedrock on PlayStation 4 Edition.
** Pre-existing players on the PlayStation 4 platform can still play the {{el|lce}} codebase by launching the legacy version within the {{el|be}} game.
** Added the "Editions" button on {{el|be}} and "Launch New Minecraft" button for {{el|ps4}} allowing for pre-existing players to switch between the two versions.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Can now fill [[glass bottle]]s with [[water]] or [[honey bottle|honey]].
* Can now shear honeycombs.
 
'''[[Slime block]]s'''
* Changed the texture to match {{el|je}}.

=== Items ===
'''[[Lead]]s'''
* Can now be used on [[dolphin]]s, [[ocelot]]s, [[parrot]]s, and [[polar bear]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-46866}})

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Are now sorted alphabetically in the [[Creative]] inventory.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Swimming]]'''
* Players can no longer start swimming in 1-block deep water.

=== General ===
* Improved performance.

'''[[Experience]]'''
* Tweaked the amount of experience dropped by [[animal]]s to match {{el|je}}.

'''[[Loading tips]]'''
* Added new loading screen tips and trivia.

'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Changed the title screen background to reflect bees and items related to them.

'''Map-making and [[add-on]]s'''
* Item tags can now be hidden in the UI using the {{cmd|gamerule showtags}} command.

'''[[Patrol]]s'''
* Can no longer spawn in [[the Nether]] and [[the End|End]].

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when signing into Xbox Live on Android.

'''Performance'''
* Fixed an issue with kelp growth causing lag in specific chunks. ({{bug|MCPE-50175}})

'''General'''
* Fixed a render distance issue that could cause an old style (limited) world to not load correctly if a player logged out in a specific corner of that world.
* Fixed an issue that was causing scripting error messages to show on the Alien Worlds Marketplace world.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed a bug that was sometimes causing chests to become invisible. ({{bug|MCPE-52790}})
* Fixed an issue that could sometimes cause touch screen controls to become inverted. ({{bug|MCPE-50256}})

'''Mobs'''
* Improved the accuracy of pathfinding for flying mobs.
* Baby pigmen now hold their swords in their hands, rather than around their necks. ({{bug|MCPE-53454}})

'''Blocks'''
* Fixed an issue that was causing sugar cane to break when a nearby water source became waterlogged. ({{bug|MCPE-52314}})

'''Items'''
* Arrows and tridents no longer fall through the ground after being deflected by a shield. ({{bug|MCPE-44721}})
* Dragon heads now appear at the correct height. ({{bug|MCPE-53129}})
* Buckets can once again be used to milk cows. ({{bug|MCPE-54623}})
* Milk buckets can again be used to craft cakes. ({{bug|MCPE-52774}})
* Fixed acacia leaves sometimes becoming stuck in the inventory hotbar.
* Placing armor on an armor stand in Creative mode no longer equips it on the player as well.

'''Character creator'''
* Various fixes to the character creator.
* Fixed an issue that was causing worn items to transfer between character creator models unexpectedly.
* Adding or removing the founder's cape now updates the skin in-game without needing to restart.
* Platform restricted skins can now be previewed in the character creator.
* Fixed capes not rendering in some skin packs. ({{bug|MCPE-54181}})
* Fixed another issue that was causing player skins to revert to a default Alex or Steve after relaunching the game.
* Skins that don't roam to Minecraft Earth no longer display "Usable Everywhere" in the character creator.
* Equipping a new custom skin now updates the player model without needing to restart the game.
* Optimized the size of character creator skins to improve performance when playing in multiplayer.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed the held item bobbing animation when moving in first person view. ({{bug|MCPE-51212}})
* The block breaking animation now shows again if a block is below water when the player is above.
* The player's hand no longer disappears when gliding with elytra. ({{bug|MCPE-53092}})
* Water now renders correctly when kelp is placed next to a glass block.

'''User interface'''
* Fixed a navigation issue that could cause an incorrect focus change when choosing an option from the pause menu.
* Fixed an issue that could cause menu flickering when navigating through the character creator.
* The "See Pack in Store" button in the character creator can now be highlighted and selected when using a controller.
* Fixed some misspelled splash text.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Custom entities once again show their health bar correctly while being ridden.
* Fixed an issue with particle billboarding that was causing them to appear flipped in the wrong direction.
* Fixed an issue with pivot points for custom geometry cube models.
* Fixed a bug that was causing tamed entity damage to be counted as coming from mounted players.

== See also ==
* [[Java Edition 1.15]]
* [[PlayStation 4 Edition 1.99]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.14.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]]
[[pl:Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.14.0]]
[[ru:1.14.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0]]