{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.19.0.26 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.19.0.26.png
|image3=Bedrock 1.19.0.27.png
|type=Preview
|internal=;Beta
'''Windows''': 1.19.26.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.19.26.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.19.0.26<br>
'''Preview'''
'''Windows''': 1.19.27.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.19.27.70<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.0.27<br>
|parent=1.19.0
|date='''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''': April 20, 2022
|prevparent=1.18.33
|prev=Preview 1.19.0.25
|next=Preview 1.19.0.29
|nextparent=1.19.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.0.26''' (Windows, Android, Xbox) or '''Preview 1.19.0.27''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.0]], released on April 20, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/5661892666253|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.0.26/27|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=April 20, 2022}}</ref> which introduces new music, adds ranged attack for [[warden]]s, revamps ancient cities, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Music]]'''
* Added new music, all by [[Lena Raine]].
** "Ancestry" only plays in the [[deep dark]].
** "Aerie", "Firebugs", and "Labyrinthine" plays in the [[lush caves]], all types of [[swamp]]s, [[forest]]s, and [[jungle]]s, as well as the [[Title Screen|menu screen]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Mangrove Roots]] and [[Mangrove Propagule]]'''
* Can now be composted.

'''[[Mud]]'''
* Now allows [[sugar cane]], [[bamboo]], and [[big dripleaf|big dripleaves]] to be planted on top of it.

'''[[Muddy Mangrove Roots]]'''
* Now allows [[flowers]], [[sapling]]s and [[grass]] to be planted on top of it.

'''[[Note Block]]'''
* Reverted the change made in [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.30.22|beta 1.18.30.22]] in which only [[wool]] would block sounds.

'''[[Sculk Shrieker]]'''
* Changed its model and its side texture.

=== Items ===
'''[[Boat]]s and [[Boat with Chest|Boats with Chests]]'''
* Changed item textures of all types of boats and boats with chests.

'''[[Echo Shard]]s'''
* Can now generate inside Ancient City loot chests.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Warden]]'''
* Can now charge a ranged attack when the player is building high, hiding behind walls or being out of range of their melee attack.
** Their rib cages will open up to shriek a sonically charged ranged attack that can penetrate walls.
** The ranged attack deals {{Hp|30}} damage in Normal and can hit at a horizontal distance of 15 blocks.
** The ranged attack can only hit one target at a time.
* Can now smell players from further away.
* The vertical range wardens get angry at a target while sniffing is now 20 blocks instead of 6 blocks.
* Now get angry at all mobs that bump into it, not just players.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Ancient City]]'''
* Revamped with new structures, improvements to already existing structures and an updated loot table.
* Now generate with valuable loot that includes the "otherside" [[music disc]], [[Potion|Potions of Regeneration II]], [[Enchanted Book|enchanted books]], enchanted iron and diamond [[leggings]], enchanted diamond [[hoe]]s, and [[Enchanted Golden Apple|enchanted golden apple]]s.
** If the frame of [[Reinforced Deepslate|reinforced deepslate]] generates with a chest in front, it will always contain one [[Golden Apple|golden apple]] (a hint about how to open the secret door below).
** Has different levels and open spaces, with several types of ruins and wall structures.
** Some of these structures contain [[Log|dark oak log]]s, [[planks]], and [[fence]]s; cyan, light blue, and blue [[wool]] and [[carpet]]s; [[ladder]]s; [[ice]] and its variants; [[Note Block|note block]]s; [[Pressure Plate|stone pressure plate]]s; and [[Trapdoor|iron trapdoor]]s opened with [[lever]]s.
* Hidden underneath the frame of [[Reinforced Deepslate|reinforced deepslate]] are several rooms containing [[redstone]] mechanisms that serve to introduce new players to their function.
** There is a silenced sculk sensor that needs a signal strength of 8 to open a redstone door. Taking the golden carrot from the chest placed near the structure and eating it will reveal the entrance.
** Each variant of the city center has a different redstone puzzle concealing the entrance, requiring slightly different strategies to solve.
** The mechanisms are made with [[Redstone Dust|redstone dust]], [[Redstone Torch|redstone torches]], [[Redstone Repeater|redstone repeater]]s, [[Redstone Comparator|redstone comparator]]s, [[Redstone Lamp|redstone lamp]]s, [[Block of Redstone|blocks of redstone]], [[Piston|sticky pistons]], a [[Sculk Sensor|sculk sensor]], a [[target]], and a [[lectern]].
** One variant includes a [[lever]], and another includes a [[furnace]] containing 24 [[deepslate]] and a [[Shovel|wooden shovel]].

=== General ===
'''[[Music]]'''
* The places where the following existing music can be played are changed:
** "Stand Tall", "Wending", and "Infinite Amethyst" can no longer be played in the main menu.
** "Left to Bloom" and "One More Day" can no longer be played in the main menu, can be played in all types of forests, jungles, and [[old growth taiga]]s.
** "Floating Dream" and "Comforting Memories" can be played in all types of forests, jungles, and old growth taigas.

== Fixes ==
'''Sounds'''
* Added new music for The Wild Update
* Frogs now use all hurt sounds ({{bug|MCPE-152629}})
* Froglights now have the correct breaking sound ({{bug|MCPE-153943}})

'''Ancient Cities'''
* Soul Lanterns no longer generate on air blocks in Ancient Cities ({{bug|MCPE-153586}})
* The City Center structure now forms a complete rectangle of Reinforced Deepslate ({{bug|MCPE-153567}})
* Added Echo Shards to the Ancient City loot chests
* Updated Ancient City structures to match Java

'''Warden'''
* Warden now has a Sonic Boom attack that deals ranged damage and knockback to the target it strikes
* Warden no longer “sniffs” while it has a target
* Prevent the Warden from digging down if it sniffs a target
* Warden can now be pushed by other mobs
* Warden now gets angry at all mobs that bump into it ({{bug|MCPE-153839}})
* Fixed a crash when swapping between game modes when attacking the Warden
* Warden now gives correct amount of XP ({{bug|MCPE-153564}})

'''Allay'''
* Allay interact tooltip now says "Give item to Allay" ({{bug|MCPE-153035}})

'''Blocks'''
* Wither can't destroy Reinforced Deepslate anymore ({{bug|MCPE-153542}})
* Ender Dragon can't destroy Reinforced Deepslate anymore ({{bug|MCPE-153545}})
* Reinforced Deepslate has been moved to the Nature tab in Creative Inventory ({{bug|MCPE-153543}})

'''Mud Brick Block'''
* Mud Brick Stairs/Slabs/Walls are now grouped properly ({{bug|MCPE-153719}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed game crash when using the Material Reducer (Education Edition feature)
* Fixed Light Blocks being destroyable from within while underwater ({{bug|MCPE-148393}})
* Fixed issue with experience gained when taking item from incorrect slot while using Furnace ({{bug|MCPE-152227}})
* Allow Mangrove Roots and Propagules to be compostable ({{bug|MCPE-153782}}, {{bug|MCPE-153912}}) 
* Allow most plants and saplings to be placeable on Mud and Muddy Mangrove Roots. This includes all Flowers, Saplings, Bamboo, Sugar Canes, Big Dripleaf, and Sweet Berry Bushes ({{bug|MCPE-153916}})
* Allow Mangrove Roots to generate through Snow Layers ({{bug|MCPE-153913}})
* Tadpoles can now be tempted with Slimeballs

'''Touch Control Settings'''
* Static Joystick toggle no longer gets disabled upon Move Joystick toggles getting disabled ({{bug|MCPE-153201}})

'''Graphical'''
* Updated Boat and Chest Boat item icon textures to make them consistent with Java Edition ({{bug|MCPE-153353}})

'''Raids'''
* Illagers are now allowed to migrate to other villages and progress raids ({{bug|MCPE-151310}})

'''JSON'''
* Fixed an issue that caused weights to not be used for Music</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.0 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.0.26]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.0.26]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.0.27]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.0.27]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.0.26]]