{{Infobox version
|title=v1.6.0
|vernum=1.6
|edition=Bedrock
|internal=1.6.0.14 <br> '''Windows 10''': 1.6.14.0
|image=Bedrock 1.6.png
|image2=Bedrock 1.6.0.png
|date=August 28, 2018
|prevparent=1.5.0
|prev=1.5.3
|next=1.6.1
|nextparent=1.7.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/1.6 releases}}

'''1.6.0''' is a major update to {{el|be}} released on August 28, 2018.<ref>{{tweet|Mega_Spud|1034476709389762560|The 1.6 update for #Minecraft is rolling out now! Just a heads up, Nintendo Switch will receive the update a little bit later on.  Also we're aware that the Phantom AI might be a bit peculiar to start with, and we're going to include the fix for that in an upcoming hotfix.|August 28, 2018}}</ref> It adds many of the [[Update Aquatic]] features that were not yet added within the first two phases such as [[phantom]]s and the [[Slow Falling]] status effect, as well as many changes and bug fixes.

Compared to previous updates, 1.6.0 features less content than other major updates, due to a change in how version numbers represent major updates in the game.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Barrier
|Potion of Slow Falling
|Splash Potion of Slow Falling
|Lingering Potion of Slow Falling
|Arrow of Slow Falling
|Phantom Membrane
|Phantom Spawn Egg Revision 2
}}

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrier]] '''
* Functionally similar to [[Invisible Bedrock]]
** Can be broken in creative mode.
** Visible when held in the player's hand.

=== Items ===
'''[[Arrow of Slow Falling]]'''
* Gives the player the Slow Falling status effect.

'''[[Phantom Membrane]]'''
* Dropped by [[phantom]]s.
* Used to repair [[elytra]].

'''[[Potion of Slow Falling]]'''
* Brewed with phantom membrane.
* Gives the player the Slow Falling status effect.
* Can be turned into [[splash potion]] and [[lingering potion]].

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* [[Phantom]]

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Phantom]]s'''
* Spawn in the [[Overworld]] at high altitudes, and swoop down in groups of around 3 or 4 to attack players that have not slept in a while.
* Drop 0-1 phantom membrane.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* {{EffectLink|Slow Falling}}
** Causes the player to descend at a much slower rate, and not take any damage when hitting the ground.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|gamerule}}'''
* {{Version exclusive}}: {{code|doInsomnia}}
** Toggles [[phantom]] spawning.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[TNT]]'''
* No longer damages players and mobs when it explodes in water.

=== Items ===
'''[[Elytra]]'''
* Requires [[phantom membrane]] to repair now in an [[anvil]] instead of [[leather]].
'''[[Book and Quill]]'''
* Pages can now be turned using the controller bumper buttons.

===General===
* Menu and inventory tabs can now be navigated using the {{key|[}} and {{key|]}} keys. (Can be remapped in Settings).
* When joining a world, the default game mode selected is now the personal game mode set to the player.
* Added [[featured servers]] on Nintendo Switch.
* Added new icons to game invite and achievement notifications on Nintendo Switch.
* Adjusted mouse sensitivity for slower turning at lower values.
* Changed splash:
** "Jason! Jason! Jason!" to "Jason! Jason! Jason! Jeison?"

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes/performance'''
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when using Pick Block in a spot where a mob just died.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when players were spawning and the spawn point was getting set every tick.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when joining a game and downloading Greek Mythology textures.
* Increased performance for menu load times.

'''General'''
* Fixed the "Ahoy” and "Atlantis" achievements not unlocking on Nintendo Switch.
* Fixed an issue that caused touch screen actions to repeat after touch release.
* Fixed controls becoming unresponsive after resuming the game from standby. ({{bug|MCPE-22195}})
* Operator permissions are now granted to players when the host creates a world with Trust Player Permissions set to Operator.
* Fixed the upload failure that occurred when exporting to Remix3D.

'''Gameplay'''
* Firework rockets once again give the proper boost when using elytra. ({{bug|MCPE-30821}})
* Crouching on ladders no longer stops when opening the pause menu or inventory screen.
* Fixed the speed boost given by dolphins being too slow when wearing armor with Depth Strider.
* The Resistance effect now protects against the Wither effect. ({{bug|MCPE-21515}})
* Players no longer clip through blocks and suffocate while swimming. ({{bug|MCPE-34112}})
* Players are now able to return to the Overworld if an end portal is on their spawn point.

'''Items'''
* Buckets now stack properly when getting ejected from crafting output.
* Fixed an exploit that allowed players to obtain a 'Water' item. ({{bug|MCPE-28883}})
* Fixed an exploit that allowed items to be duplicated using the recipe book. ({{bug|MCPE-36167}})

'''Mobs'''
* Guardians no longer attack fish.
* Fixed guardians spawning even when mob spawning is disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-34027}})
* Fixed issues with the ender dragon disappearing or dying for little to no reason.
* Drowned now have a much easier time attacking players that are swimming above them.
* Fixed strays and skeletons having trouble leaving the water to attack players.
* Wolves no longer get stuck attacking skeletons that are underwater.
* Fixed a bug where parrots could ride donkeys and mules. ({{bug|MCPE-25737}})
* Blazes now attack snow golems. ({{bug|MCPE-13191}})
* Elder guardians now drop wet sponges when killed.
* Fixed monster spawners appearing empty on converted Console Edition worlds.
* Hostile mobs in boats can no longer attack from every angle. ({{bug|MCPE-16938}})
* Dolphins can no longer attack players through solid blocks.
* Baby horses, donkeys, and mules can no longer be pushed through solid blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-20114}})
* Creepers no longer remain white or quickly flash when killed.
* Entities following a target entity now navigate properly over slabs.
* Used chests can now be equipped to mules and llamas. ({{bug|MCPE-32152}})

'''Blocks'''
* Underwater plants can now be placed in water columns that originate from the top water source blocks.
* Kelp now mimics seagrass in its placement and can be placed on most blocks underwater. ({{bug|MCPE-33747}})
* Kelp that is planted by players now grows over time.
* Chemistry blocks in a world uploaded to a Realm are no longer corrupted.
* Observers now detect changes with droppers, dispensers, brewing stands, farmland, saplings, sugar cane, fire, and grass blocks.
* The amount of fuel in brewing stands now converts from Console Edition worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-34677}})
* Activating an end portal now replaces any blocks inside the portal. ({{bug|MCPE-28344}})
* Fixed certain variants of rails having an incorrect hitbox size.
* Land plants can no longer be placed underwater. ({{bug|MCPE-34124}})
* Command blocks now correctly conduct redstone power. ({{bug|MCPE-33021}})
* Fixed an issue that allowed rails to be duplicated. ({{bug|MCPE-18230}})
* Fixed the cactus hitbox being displayed too low.

'''Realm'''
* The owner of a Realm, once again, no longer counts toward the player limit of a Realm.
* Improved error messaging when attempting to join a Realm via invite link with an outdated version of the game.

'''World generation'''
* Fixed floating rails that generated in mineshafts. ({{bug|MCPE-23189}})

'''Graphics'''
* Improved the trident throwing animation.
* Visibility now increases over time when submerged in flowing water.
* Cocoa beans now display correctly when using HD Resource Packs. ({{bug|MCPE-30552}})
* Field of view can once again be adjusted when the "FOV Can Be Altered by Gameplay" option is disabled. (MCPE-32403)
* Redstone dust now renders on the sides of glass blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-21542}})
* Resource packs once again apply when joining a multiplayer game that has a pack enabled. ({{bug|MCPE-33770}})
* Fixed texture packs having a placeholder icon on the pack validation screen on Android devices.
* The ender dragon is no longer missing the texture on its neck when playing the Norse Mythology Mash-up Pack. ({{bug|MCPE-33966}})
* Food particles no longer gradually change position after swimming and always come out of the player's mouth area. ({{bug|MCPE-33984}})
* Fixed a rare case of ender chests from Console Edition worlds converting to normal Chests with ender particles. ({{bug|MCPE-26717}})
* Leads no longer flicker when playing in split-screen multiplayer.
* Particles from enchanted arrows no longer drift in flowing water.
* Water bottle icons no longer have red liquid on Android devices. ({{bug|MCPE-34167}})
* Players no longer appear to be floating above minecarts. ({{bug|MCPE-33787}})
* Swimming through certain waterlogged blocks no longer removes underwater fog. ({{bug|MCPE-33917}})
* Oculus rift mirror screen view now displays properly on monitors with 4K resolution.

'''Audio'''
* Lowered the volume of the 'punching air' and 'punching mobs' sound effects.
* Fixed the sounds of items breaking twice for boats, minecarts, paintings, and armor stands.

'''User interface'''
* Items can once again be crafted from the recipe book while the Craftable filter is disabled and the player has only enough materials to craft a single recipe.
* Quickly moving a stack of items in the inventory with a controller no longer leaves items behind. ({{bug|MCPE-34694}})
* Fixed the Cancel button not appearing on Windows 10 devices when joining a cross-platform world.
* Opening book & quill on touch devices no longer causes blocks to break. ({{bug|MCPE-29752}})
* The gamepad cursor can now be used to navigate villager trades. ({{bug|MCPE-33330}})
* Multiple items can now be collected from the villager trading output slot. ({{bug|MCPE-32635}})
* Fixed overlapping issues with the dragon head equipped on the inventory screen.
* The crafting table's output field hover state now matches the field's size.
* Quick moving items from the hotbar to a container now works as intended. ({{bug|MCPE-19952}})
* Hitting the Enter key in the inventory no longer moves the cursor in/out of the text field or grabs/drops items.
* Selecting the output of an uncraftable recipe no longer causes the output item to disappear.
* Fixed inconsistent behavior when Attack/Destroy is mapped to Right-Click on the mouse. ({{bug|MCPE-23383}})
* Levers now have a "Use" controller hint.

'''Commands'''
* Using '{{cmd|fill}} doors' now fills the chosen area with doors instead of air blocks.
* Using the '{{cmd|setblock}}' command on redstone components now properly update and power the mechanism. ({{bug|MCPE-21218}})
* Cloning containers no longer removes their custom names.
* Slabs with '{{code|can_place_on}}' tags can once again be placed by players in Adventure mode.

'''Add-ons'''
* Fixed several issues with fish textures that pertained to resource packs.
* '{{code|minecraft:behavior.player_ride_tamed}}' now overrides all other AI goals.
* 'movement.sway' once again allows mobs to move properly.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|Wlo-sjx9MVA}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.6.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.6.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.6.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.6]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.6]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.6.0]]
[[ru:1.6.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.6.0]]