{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.16.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.16.70<br>
|image=Bedrock 1.13.0.16.png
|parent=1.13.0
|date='''Xbox One and Windows 10:''' September 26, 2019
|prevparent=1.12.1
|prev=beta 1.13.0.15
|next=beta 1.13.0.17
|nextparent=1.13.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.16''' is the ninth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]], released on September 26, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360034122052-Minecraft-Beta-1-13-0-16-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.16 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=September 26, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed a crash that occurred after attacking a pufferfish.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when using the character creator.

'''Performance'''
* Improved performance when opening the inventory.
* Several performance improvements regarding block rendering.

'''General'''
* Partially fixed an issue that caused global resources not to be applied after relaunching the game.
* Equipped skins are once again retained after closing and relaunching the application.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue with block updates on a waterlogged block triggering a redstone update in the same chunk.
* Trying to ride a mob or mount no longer uses the item that is currently equipped. ({{bug|MCPE-51196}})

'''Mobs'''
* End crystals are once again visible in the world. ({{bug|MCPE-52261}})
* Items in foxes' mouths no longer appear invisible. ({{bug|MCPE-51993}})
* Decreased the fox's jump attack from 11 blocks to 5 blocks to match ''Java Edition''.
* Fixed an issue that reverted horses to their old models and textures.

'''Items'''
* Items held in hand once again have the correct offset in third-person view.

'''Character creator'''
* Several fixes and improvements to navigating the character creator when using a controller.
* Fixed body features becoming misaligned in the character creator.
* Fixed the "Delete Character" screen so it no longer has a transparent background.

'''Commands'''
* The '{{cmd|particle}}' command once again functions properly.
* Fixed an error message that occurred when using the '{{cmd|help}}' command.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* The boss health bar once again appears when creating a custom wither using add-ons.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.16]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.16]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.16]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.16]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.16 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.16]]