{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.2.51.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.251.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.251.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.2.51<br>
|parent=1.14.20
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' January 8, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.1
|prev=beta 1.14.2.50
|next=beta 1.14.25.1
|nextparent=1.14.21
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.2.51''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.20]], released on January 8, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360038587191|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.2.51 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=January 8, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs. This is the first beta released in 2020.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when a split-screen player joined a game on Nintendo Switch.
* Placing a compass and locator map in the crafting grid no longer causes the game to crash. ({{bug|MCPE-57882}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when traveling through a nether portal with another entity. ({{bug|MCPE-58568}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading the "Extreme Speed Runner" Marketplace world on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue that could cause text to overlap when using different window resolutions in the Marketplace.

'''Map makers and add-on creators'''
* Local space for particles attached to entities will again inherit the locator's bone rotation.</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==

* This is first beta released in 2020 and 2020s decade.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.2.51]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.2.51]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.2.51]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.2.51]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.2.51]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.2.51 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.2.51]]