{{Infobox version
| image =  Bedrock 1.19.80.24 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.80.24.png
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| server = 1.19.80.24
| build = 14889289
| editorver = 0.3.2
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
951908024 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961908024 (x86, 31)<br>
971908024 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981908024 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - April 5, 2023
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.8024.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.80.24<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.8024.70
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.80.24.zip Windows][https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.80.24.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.80
| prevparent = 1.19.73
| prev = Preview 1.19.80.23
| next =
| nextparent = 1.19.81
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.80.24''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.80.24''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fifth and final beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.80]], released on April 5, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/14595994358669|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.80.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 5, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Technical ===
'''Resource and Behavior Packs'''
* Fixed an issue that caused the ''InteractComponent'' to not work correctly while sneaking. ({{bug|MCPE-168449}})

== Fixes ==
'''General'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Simulation distance is no longer reset to default after entering a world. ({{bug|MCPE-168513}})
* Resolved an issue that prevented items from being equipped on Armor Stands. ({{bug|MCPE-169133}})
** This means that the fix for not being able to pose an Armor Stand whilist flying was temporarily reverted. ({{bug|MCPE-168548}})
'''User Interface'''
* Temporarily reverted the change which focused the keyboard input on the search bar in the Creative inventory, which will address the following issues while it's not fixed:
** Hovering above the enchantment options in Enchantment Table again shows the enchantments on mobile devices using the Pocket UI profile setting. ({{bug|MCPE-168498}})
** The {{key|Q}} and {{key|E}} shortcut keys can again be used in the Creative inventory screen. ({{bug|MCPE-168697}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.80 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.80.24]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.80.24]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.80.24]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.80.24]]