{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.7022.0<br>'''Xbox''': 1.20.7022.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.70.22
| image = Bedrock 1.20.70.22 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.70.22.png
| build = 21740455
| editorver = 0.5.5
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952007022（armeabi-v7a，33)<br>
962007022（x86，33)<br>
972007022（arm64-v8a，33)<br>
982007022（x86_64，33)<br>
| date = February 7, 2024
| server = 1.20.70.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.70.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.70.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.70
| prevparent = 1.20.62
| prev = Preview 1.20.70.21
| next = Preview 1.20.70.24
| nextparent = 1.20.71
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.70.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.70.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.70]], released on February 7, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/23935492768781-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-70-22|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.20.70.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 7, 2024}}</ref> which brings more parity from {{JE}} and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[End Portal Frame]]'''
* The end portal frame has been moved to the "Nature" category in the [[Creative inventory]].

'''[[Wood]] and [[Stripped Wood]]'''
* The different wood type and stripped bit [[block states]] for the <code>wood</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="12" | {{BlockSprite|wood}} <code>wood</code>
| {{BlockSprite|oak-wood}} <code>oak_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|spruce-wood}} <code>spruce_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|birch-wood}} <code>birch_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|jungle-wood}} <code>jungle_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|acacia-wood}} <code>acacia_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dark-oak-wood}} <code>dark_oak_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stripped-oak-wood}} <code>stripped_oak_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stripped-spruce-wood}} <code>stripped_spruce_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stripped-birch-wood}} <code>stripped_birch_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stripped-jungle-wood}} <code>stripped_jungle_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stripped-acacia-wood}} <code>stripped_acacia_wood</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stripped-dark-oak-wood}} <code>stripped_dark_oak_wood</code>
|}

=== General ===
'''[[Death screen]]'''
* The updated death screen is now enabled by default, even when resource packs are applied to a world.

'''[[Experiments]]'''
* Removed the "Molang Features" experimental toggle.

'''[[Play screen]]'''
* The feedback button in the Friends Drawer in the new play screen now leads to the correct feedback page.

'''[[Realms Stories]]'''
* Added four new [[Realm]] Events.
* Added two extra-special LARGE Realm Events.
* Added screen-reader [[narration]] for Comments screen.
* When in split-screen mode, only the primary user can access Realms Stories.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Added {{cd|Player.setGameMode}} and {{cd|Player.getGameMode}} to {{cd|beta}} for changing the player's {{cd|GameMode}}. 
* Added {{cd|GameRuleChangeAfterEvent}}, {{cd|GameRule}} and {{cd|world.afterEvents.gameRuleChange}} for responding to game rules changes.
* Moved {{cd|explosion}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.9.0}}.

'''[[JSON]]'''
: Entities
* Entities with a {{cd|damage_sensor}} component can once again be killed via commands.
* The {{cd|damage_sensor}} component can once again trigger entity events on entities other than the owner.

'''[[Molang]]'''
* Released {{cd|query.is_attached}} and {{cd|query.has_player_rider}} from experimental.
* Removed experimental Molang queries {{cd|query.get_ride}} and {{cd|query.get_riders}}. 
* Released Molang {{cd|query.scoreboard}} for use with behavior packs from experimental. (resource packs will return 0)

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Armadillo and Wolf Armor", "Update 1.21", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Vault]]'''
* Tweaked the texture to make them easier to distinguish from [[trial spawner]]s.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Armadillo]]'''
* Now do not panic when damaged but roll up instead, and hide their head and feet.
* Now peek out to see if “the coast is clear” before unrolling.
* Updated animations and sounds for rolling up, unrolling, and the peek out animation.
** The time for a rolled-up armadillo to stay without threats before unrolling has been increased from 3 to 4 seconds.

'''[[Breeze]]'''
* The breeze's attack damage has been tweaked.

==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Added events {{cd|PlayerGameModeChangeAfterEvent}}, {{cd|PlayerGameModeChangeBeforeEvent}} with signals {{cd|world.afterEvents.playerGameModeChange}} and {{cd|world.beforeEvents.playerGameModeChange}} to {{cd|beta}}.
* Removed function {{cd|triggerEvent()}}.
* {{cd|WorldBeforeEvents}}
** Removed property {{cd|itemDefinitionEvent}}.
* {{cd|WorldAfterEvents}}
** Removed property {{cd|itemDefinitionEvent}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.70.22 Preview
|;old
|19426|Strongholds sometimes don't generate the end portal.
|151348|Cave vines without glow berries drop a glow berry when mined using Silk Touch.
|162868|Blue and black candle are placed as wrong colors on a cake.
|;previous
|177975|The world list layout (grid vs list) isn't saved with the new menus.
|otherissuescount=9}}
'''Others'''
* The breeze is only suggested in the type selector when the appropriate experimental toggle is enabled.
* Fixed gamepad back button input not working correctly on the Realms Stories settings screen. 
* Fixed issue with time blocks not rendering in the correct time zones on Switch.
* Fixed the timing of {{cd|PlayerInteractWithEntityAfterEvent}} and {{cd|PlayerInteractWithBlockAfterEvent}}.
* Fixed {{cd|minecraft:geometry.full_block}} faces not rotating to match transform component.
* Fixed {{cd|minecraft:geometry.full_block}} blocks not culling faces against some vanilla blocks.
* Fixed a bug where item dynamic properties could sometimes be applied to items with a stack size greater than 1.
* Fixed a crash on Android devices when entering Deferred Technical Preview worlds.
* Fixed a circular visual artifact that could occur when using the new point light shadows feature in the Deferred Technical Preview.
{{fixes|project=REALMS|fixedin=1.20.70.22 Preview
|;old
|11290|{{cd|end_dragon_fight_ticking_area}} prevents mob spawning in realm.
|11358|item despawn timer continues in the end main island no matter if a player loads the chunks or not.
|otherissuescount=1}}
'''Others'''
* Fixed a bug where text in the Realms subscription landing page was slightly truncated.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.70 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.70.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.70.22]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.70.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.70.22]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.70.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.70.22]]