{{Infobox version
|title=v1.2.2
|vernum=1.2.2
|image=Bedrock 1.2.2.png
|edition=Bedrock Edition
|build=510650
|internal=1.2.2.3</br> '''Windows 10''' 1.2.203.0
|date=October 4, 2017
|prevparent=1.2.0
|prev=1.2.1
|next=1.2.3
|nextparent=1.4.0
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.2.2''' is a minor update to ''[[Bedrock Edition]]'' released on October 4, 2017, which fixed several bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004168431|title=Minecraft - 1.2.2 (Bedrock)}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Egg]]s'''
* They will now cause a knockback effect when dashed at other players.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that occurred when loading worlds.
* Fixed a crash when backing out from a menu using a controller if there was a setting toggled by touch or mouse/keyboard.
* Fixed a crash when signing out of the safe area screen after switching to a new profile. (Xbox One only)
* Fixed a crash that occurred in the World Settings screen.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when joining servers.
* Fixed a crash related to inputting and rendering text. (Xbox One only)
* Increased performance when navigating the main menu. (Xbox One only)
* Holding sneak and jump at the same time while flying will no longer drift slowly downward.
* Realms invite links now appear. (Xbox One only)
* The [[cake]] is not a lie! On controller, the recipe book no longer says ingredients are missing when they are present in the inventory.
* [[Redstone dust]] and components now properly show their active/inactive status.
* Redstone components no longer freeze or trigger when reloading a world.
* [[Egg]]s thrown at other players will now cause knockback effect.
* All firework rockets can now be taken from the recipe book without disappearing.
* [[Resource packs]] are now applied to the main menu after restarting the game when the resource pack was previously added to Active Packs in the Global Resources menu.
* Each [[player]] in split-screen now has appropriate lighting for the dimension they are in.
* Fixed issue of [[Efficiency]] III diamond pickaxes not continually mining blocks that are fast to mine, such as netherrack.
* Mending enchantment will now work properly with fishing rods.
* Using commands or {{control|pick block}} to get [[shulker box]]es no longer displays the placeholder name.
* Mob [[head]]s can now be equipped if the stack contains more than one when using a touch screen.
* Ladders placed on other ladders or slabs will no longer be invisible.
* Pressing the left thumbstick will now toggle the recipe book on if it was closed.
* Recipe book now updates properly when opening and the Craftable toggle is off.
* [[Armor]]s of the same type will now visually switch properly in armor slots on Classic UI.
* Fixed the B button not closing the settings menu when a slider is highlighted.
* Chat and Active Status Effect screens will now open on the first press of d-pad buttons.
* Fixed overlap issues with the [[player]]s Permission dropdown menu.
* Fixed incorrect controller tooltips appearing on several menu screens.
* Fixed Old worlds crashing and taking too long to load.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|MI58t4EeHMg}}

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.2.2]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.2.2]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.2.2]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.2.2]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.2.2]]
[[ru:1.2.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:1.2.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.2.2]]