{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.30.20 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.30.20.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.3020.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.3020.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.30.20<br>
|parent=1.17.30
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': August 4, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.11
|prev=beta 1.17.20.23
|next=beta 1.17.30.21
|nextparent=1.17.32
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.30.20''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.30]], released on August 4, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4406445924237|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.30.20 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=August 4, 2021}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Ghast]]'''
* No longer spawn in less than 5x4x5 area.

'''[[Magma Cube]]s'''
* Medium Magma Cubes now have a larger hitbox (1.04 x 1.04 blocks) to match [[Slime]]s.
* No longer spawn in less than 3x3x2 area.

'''[[Zombie]]s, [[Zombie Villager]]s, [[Husk]]s and [[Drowned]]'''
* No longer pick up [[glow ink sac]]s.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added "Clear Hotbar" option to the controller settings.
* Added "Show Border Effect" in the world settings.

=== Technical ===
'''Chemistry'''
* New chemistry material reductions can now be defined in the JSON files.
* Chalkboards now appear consistently when being placed.

'''Commands'''
* The {{cmd|clone}} command now copies signal strength for Levers and Redstone Dust.
* The {{cmd|structure}} command can now specify a <to: x y z> position argument with y below 0 as long as it is equal or above the minimum height for that dimension.
* Added functionality for Intellisense options: "d" and "default" in the gamemode command selector.
* Minecart with Command Block can now use the self selector (@s) in its commands to target itself.
* The {{cmd|time set}} command now sets the correct time and day when specifying a time above 24000 or below the current time (e.g. {{cmd|time set 0}} sets the day to 0, {{cmd|time set 28000}} sets the day to 1), and {{cmd|time}} can now set or add to a negative world time.

'''Items'''
* Updated documentation formatting for item components.
* Using water buckets to collect fish has been version locked to prevent breaking old world templates.

== Fixes ==
'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when downloading large Marketplace worlds

'''Accessibility'''
* Text to Speech now correctly reads item names in the inventory
* Inventory grid slots are no longer double counted for Text to Speech focus controls

'''Gameplay'''
* Light blocks are now visible when holding another, and also show brightness value ({{bug|MCPE-123249}})
* Fixed Light Block not being removed when left-clicking it while holding a Light Block ({{bug|MCPE-123258}})
* Fixed Light Block brightness not being adjustable when right-clicking it ({{bug|MCPE-123387}})
* Fixed Light Block hitbox issue ({{bug|MCPE-135277}})
* Fixed Barrier Block being destructible whilst not holding a Barrier Block
* Boats now disappear from inventory correctly after placing it on water in Survival mode ({{bug|MCPE-136445}})

'''User Interface'''
* Text to Speech for chat setting once again correctly narrates chat messages ({{bug|MCPE-129901}})
* Sidebar strings are now localized properly when a new language is loaded or the current language changes
* Updated the Achievements button and moved from the Profile screen to the Main Menu and Pause screens
* Enabled new achievements screens for VR (not including PSVR)

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Eating Chorus Fruit while gliding no longer deals fall damage to the player ({{bug|MCPE-112621}})
* Fixed an animation parity issue with Skeletons not using both arms to hold their Bows ({{bug|MCPE-670}})

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed an issue where mobs would sometimes render with incorrect geometry when viewed from the Structure Block preview window ({{bug|MCPE-95183}})
* Experimental Features: Wither can now be spawned on negative heights ({{bug|MCPE-125270}})
* Ghasts no longer spawn in less than 5x4x5 area ({{bug|MCPE-133687}})
* Magma Cubes no longer spawn in less than 3x3x2 area ({{bug|MCPE-46540}})
* Medium Magma Cubes now have a larger hitbox ({{bug|MCPE-132159}})
* Shulker boxes now remain in Dispensers when dispensed at world limit ({{bug|MCPE-130085}})

'''Blocks'''
* Unicode font now correctly highlights on Signs with glowing text ({{bug|MCPE-130072}})
* Waterlogged blocks no longer occasionally turn into ghost blocks ({{bug|MCPE-136537}})
* Pumpkins placed facing South, East, or West now can now be used to trade with Villagers if they were mined with Silk Touch tools ({{bug|MCPE-105540}})
* More Candles can no longer be added to Candles placed without any support block ({{bug|MCPE-130810}})

'''Graphical'''
* Sky no longer renders through walls of a large enclosed area when using fog.

'''Technical'''
* Fixed the ability to add launch point positional offset for projectiles spawned with the <code>spawn_entity</code> component.
* Fixed the ability to add angular offset to launch vector for projectiles spawned with the <code>spawn_entity</code> component.
* Fixed offset not working for projectiles summoned through an interaction.
* Fixed projectile <code>angleoffset</code> value only reflected if shooter is riding another entity.
* Fixed rotation of projectile launchpoint around a mob when projectile offset specified.
* Fixed <code>query.item_remaining_use_duration</code> having improperly scaled or inverted results.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.20]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.30.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.30.20]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.30.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.30.20]]