{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.30.20 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.30.20.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.3020.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.3020.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.30.20
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - August 4, 2022
| parent = 1.19.30
| prevparent = 1.19.22
| prev = 
| next = Preview 1.19.30.21
| nextparent = 1.19.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.30.20''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.30.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.30]], released on August 4, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/8175535399181|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.30.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 4, 2022}}</ref> which brought more parity from {{JE}}, and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
{{update|section=1}}
=== Technical ===
'''Actor Properties'''
* Numerical actor properties (float and integer) will now always clamp their values into the range of values specified.

'''Add-Ons and Script Engine'''
* {{cd|minecraft:instant_despawn}} no longer affects [[players]].

'''Commands'''
* Command selector now gets the same position for the player that the command origin player position gets.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features" and "GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''Commands'''
* The {{cmd|execute if block}} command now displays integer values for block positions ({{bug|MCPE-156285}})

'''GameTest Framework'''
* Vector
** Fixed a bug where ''function'' length would return undefined
** Added function ''lengthSquared''- Returns the squared length of the vector
** Added ''stackOverflow'' as a possible ''WatchdogTerminateReason'' for the ''beforeWatchdogTerminate'' event
* IRawMessage - Interface object representing a message
** rawtext : (string | IRawMessage)[] - (optional) A list of text objects used to build a message
** text : string - (optional) A string containing plain text to display directly. Only valid when used as a sub member in a parent ''rawtext'' or ''with'' member
** translate : string - (optional) String representing a translation identifier to translate text in the player's selected language
** with : (string | IRawMessage)[] - (optional) A list of text object arguments used to fill values in the ''translate'' text. Ignored when ''translate'' is not present
** say(string | IRawMessage) - Used to broadcast a message to all players
** tell(string | IRawMessage) - Send a message to a player
* Fixed a bug where Dynamic Properties would not persist when using worlds hosted on Bedrock Dedicated Server or Realms
* Pack dependencies on native modules can be declared using the module name without the need to specify a UUID, using the “module_name” attribute. The module name matches the import statement (e.g., “mojang-minecraft”)
* Removed mojang-gametest module version 0.1.0; packs using "mojang-gametest" specific APIs must be updated to use GameTest version 1.0.0-beta
* The "mojang-gametest" module 1.0.0-beta requires "mojang-minecraft" module 1.0.0-beta

'''General'''
* Removed usage of {{cd|minecraft:unwalkable}} block component and added block creative group and category to the block description.

== Fixes ==
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Endermen no longer get angry at Creative players. ({{bug|MCPE-42977}})
* Modified the fireball entity's collision box to match Java Edition.
* The enchanting table now produces a sound when enchanting an item.
* Amethyst blocks no longer produce sound when jumping off of them.

'''Deep Dark'''
* Increased sculk shrieker and sculk sensor generation rates in deep dark and ancient cities to better match Java Edition. ({{bug|MCPE-153525}})

'''Melon Block'''
* Fixed the bottom texture of the melon block to match the top texture. ({{bug|MCPE-31035}})

'''Mobs'''
* Modified the cat's head position while sitting to match Java Edition. ({{bug|MCPE-46668}})
* Fixed a bug causing leads to break with allays after the owner player changes dimensions. ({{bug|MCPE-158955}})

'''User Interface'''
* The item stack popup animation will now only play when a new item is added to the stack. ({{bug|MCPE-23995}})
* If a villager has a name tag, it is now displayed along with their trade tier. ({{bug|MCPE-152644}})
* Fixed a UI bug where enchanted leather items would have parts of the texture not displaying the glint animation. ({{bug|MCPE-98929}})
* Added new disconnection error messages to better highlight the area in which the disconnection occurred.

'''Spectator Mode (Experimental)'''
* Endermen no longer become angry at players in Spectator Mode. ({{bug|MCPE-156742}})
* Players in Spectator Mode can no longer interact with sculk sensors by swimming in water or lava. ({{bug|MCPE-153879}})
* Players switching into Spectator Mode will unhook any fish hooks attached to them.
* Players in Spectator mode can no longer be pushed by explosions. ({{bug|MCPE-156687}})
* Powder Snow no longer emits particles when spectators move through it. ({{bug|MCPE-153876}})
* Big dripleaf no longer tilts when touched by players in Spectator Mode. ({{bug|MCPE-156686}})
* Players in Spectator Mode now keep their inventories and equipped items on death. ({{bug|MCPE-156681}})
* Spectators can no longer attract mob's attention when holding their favorite food. ({{bug|MCPE-153882}})
* The {{cmd|testfor}} command can now target spectators. ({{bug|MCPE-158042}})
* The Spectator game mode can no longer be entered via the {{cmd|gamemode 6}} command, only via {{cmd|gamemode spectator}}.
* Spectators using touch controls can no longer break boats and minecarts. ({{bug|MCPE-158307}})
* Pufferfish no longer react to nearby spectators.

'''Blocks'''
* Mud Brick Slab can now be placed as a top slab via commands. ({{bug|MCPE-157852}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Piston's animation when extending and retracting is now smooth. ({{bug|MCPE-155987}})

'''Border Block'''
* Border blocks should now prevent passage at all heights.

'''Items'''
* Mangrove, crimson, and warped planks can now be used to repair shields. ({{bug|MCPE-158940}})

'''Marketplace'''
* The "Cannot connect to Marketplace" error will no longer be erroneously read by the Text-To-Speech reader.
* Fixed a bug where the text-to-speech feature would read the entire "My Content" page, both highlighted and non-highlighted items.

'''Goat'''
* The goat's ram animation was modified to slowly lower their head when preparing to ram. ({{bug|MCPE-129477}})

'''Villagers'''
* Fixed a bug that rarely caused the villager's bounding box to become desynced with the server when sleeping.

'''Dedicated Server'''
* Added server property <code>disable-custom-skins</code> to block untrusted skins on a server wide level.

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed a bug causing an occasional crash when loading players in beds.

'''Villages'''
* Raid bar no longer becomes stuck after breaking beds to cancel a raid. ({{bug|MCPE-152851}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.30.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.30.20]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.30.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.30.20]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.30.20]]