{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.0.1
| edition = Editor
| type = 
| date = June 10, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.100.20|1.21.100.20]]
| prevparent = 1.0.0
| next = 1.0.2
| nextparent = 1.1.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.0.1''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on June 10, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/243|title=Release 1.0.1 (1.21.100.20)|website=GitHub|date=June 10, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/37264366737421-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-100-20|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.100.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=June 10, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added ability to specify directional placement of blocks for any brush operation using {{cd|DirectionalPlacementMode}} enum and {{cd|setDirectionalPlacementMode}}.
* Added ability to toggle that {{key|Ctrl}} will either erase or add blocks with the addition of {{cd|setInverseEraseMode}}.

== Changes ==
* Updated default brush shape and sizes for the terrain tool to apply smooth and roughen stronger on first use.
* Updated Cone and Cylinder Brush Shapes so that the origin is included in radius measurements.
* Updated component tooltip property to support new {{cd|TooltipContent}} type.
** {{cd|TooltipContent}} allows for a custom title to be added to the tooltip.
* Removed support for the {{cd|SimpleTool}} framework API. Tools using this feature must now use {{cd|IPlayerUISession}} controls instead.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug where Realms panel was opening in an empty state.
* Fixed a bug where 'Multiplayer' and 'visible to LAN Players' didn't export.
* Fixed navigation and focus issues in the Editor graph, fixed arrow key movement when the graph is locked. Improved handling of clicks outside of the graph.
* Fixed edge cases where values in X and Z dimensions would produce different results.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.0.1]]
[[uk:1.0.1 (Bedrock Editor)]]