{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.18.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.18.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.18<br>
|image=Bedrock 1.13.0.18.png
|parent=1.13.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 2, 2019
|prevparent=1.12.1
|prev=beta 1.13.0.17
|next=
|nextparent=1.13.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.18''' is the eleventh and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]], released on October 2, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360034340052-Minecraft-Beta-1-13-0-18-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.18 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=October 2, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed a crash that occurred when accepting the storage permission on Android.
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when scrolling through languages in the Settings. ({{bug|MCPE-52009}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using the character creator on Android. ({{bug|MCPE-52474}})

'''General'''
* The "Beam Me Up" achievement can once again be unlocked.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed players falling from the sky after riding an entity in Creative mode. ({{bug|MCPE-52957}})
* Fixed players spawning in unexpected locations after roaming a world save to a different Xbox One.

'''Mobs'''
* Zombies once again spawn in caves. ({{bug|MCPE-52743}}) 

'''Items'''
* Carpets once again appear on the llama's inventory screen. 
* Crossbows no longer fire immediately after loading. ({{bug|MCPE-52179}})
* Fixed the ability to discard damaged tools from the Creative inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-52465}})
* Compasses and clocks once again animate on the hotbar. ({{bug|MCPE-52901}})
* Armor can once again be equipped directly from the Creative inventory on touch screens. ({{bug|MCPE-52413}})
* Frost Walker boots once again freeze water.

'''Graphical'''
* The breaking animation once again appears on chests.
* Fixed the player's head looking wrongly when sneaking. ({{bug|MCPE-51181}})
* Fixed the player's arms not animating when swimming. ({{bug|MCPE-49749}})
* Mob heads once again fit properly on players.
* Fixed the crafting table icon not showing its grid on top in certain GUI scales.
* Fixed several missing and broken textures in the inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-52442}})
* Fixed some skins appearing with a white cape. ({{bug|MCPE-52005}})
* Fixed armor not respecting extra layers on skins.
* Fixed destroyed blocks leaving shadows.

'''User interface'''
* Various fixes and loading time improvements to the character creator interface.
* External servers once again appear on the Servers screen.
* Fixed the inventory screens of some blocks not appearing on the first attempt after the block's state has changed, like hoppers and dispensers.
* The Profile screen can now be accessed when playing split-screen.
* The "Read More" button once again appears next to packs on the Global Resource menu.

'''Commands'''
* The '{{cmd|summon}}' command once again properly names entities, if defined.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Fixed spawn eggs not appearing in the Creative inventory for custom mobs.
* Item held by scaled mobs are once again sized appropriately.
* Using '{{cd|format_version}}' 1.2.0 no longer breaks the '{{cd|on_damage}}' component.
* Triggering custom animations for entities is once again functional.
* Using the 'transformation' component on '{{cd|xp_orb}}' once again removes the source entity. 
* The '{{cd|spawn_entity}}' component is now executed when an entity is being ridden.
* Fixed the ender dragon not appearing correctly in some add-on packs.
* Errors are once again listed on the pack manifest validation screen.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.18]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.18]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.18]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.18]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.18]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.18 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.18]]