{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.0.52.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.52.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.52.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.0.52<br>
|parent=1.14.1
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' November 26, 2019
|prevparent=1.14.0.12
|prev=beta 1.14.0.51
|next=beta 1.14.1.2
|nextparent=1.14.20
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.0.52''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.1]], released on November 26, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360036947951|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.0.52 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=November 26, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that occurred when signing into Xbox Live on some Android devices.
* Added a potential fix for a crash and user interface corruption that occurred after updating the game on Xbox One.
* View bobbing once again looks right when facing North and South. ({{bug|MCPE-56214}})
* Fixed items disappearing when crafting several items. ({{bug|MCPE-56118}})
* Fixed some instances of milk randomly disappearing from buckets. ({{bug|MCPE-57194}})
* Bees now become hostile when baby bees are attacked.
* Fixed broken textures when resource packs are disabled.
* Fixed an issue that caused some players not to be able to leave the inventory screen on the Marketplace.
* Improved performance in areas with high numbers of players.
* Fixed some character creator items appearing incorrectly.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.52]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.52]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.0.52]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.52]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.0.52]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.0.52 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.52]]