{{Infobox version
| title = v1.18.31
| vernum = 1.18.31
| server = 1.18.31.04
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.18.3104.0<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.31.04<br>
'''Fire''': 1.18.31.04<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.3104.70<br>
'''Nintendo Switch''': 1.18.31<br>
'''PlayStation 4''': 2.41
| image = Bedrock 1.18.31.png
| edition = Bedrock
| date = '''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire, Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4''': April 27, 2022<br>'''Nintendo Switch''': April 29, 2022
| prevparent = 1.18.0
| prev = 1.18.30
| next = 1.18.32
| nextparent = 1.19.0
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.18.31.04.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.18.31.04.zip Linux]
}}

'''1.18.31''' is a hotfix to {{BE}} released on April 27, 2022, which moves [[spectator mode]] behind experimental toggle, and fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/5842521639693|title=Minecraft - 1.18.31 (Bedrock)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=April 27, 2022}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments toggle]]'''
* Added "Spectator Mode" experimental toggle.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Spectator Mode" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===
==== Gameplay ====
'''[[Spectator|Spectator mode]]'''
* Moved behind the experimental toggle.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed an exploit with improperly gaining XP through Furnaces ({{bug|MCPE-152227}}).
* Teleporting entities into unloaded chunks no longer deletes them.
* Fixed the screen turning black when reloading RTX worlds ({{bug|MCPE-152645}}).
* Fixed textures of distant blocks appearing grainy, warped, and distorted when playing on Android devices ({{bug|MCPE-141316}}).
* Fixed flowing water and lava textures not appearing correctly on iOS and iPadOS devices.
* Fixed various framerate hitches, particularly impacting less powerful mobile devices ({{bug|MCPE-142934}}).
* Mobs can no longer spawn on Buttons ({{bug|MCPE-153897}}).
* Fixed an issue where repeatedly saving and reloading specific chunks would result in delayed chunk loading, performance issues, and game instability ({{bug|MCPE-154110}}, {{bug|MCPE-154278}}).
* Fixed an issue that prevented worlds from being opened after updating to version 1.18.30.
* The "Sound of Music" achievement now unlocks when requirements are met.
* Fixed issues with Marketplace not opening on Nintendo Switch ({{bug|MCPE-154120}}).
* Fixed an infinite loading screen that could occur when making purchases in Marketplace.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.18.31]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.18.31]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.18.31]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.18.31]]
[[ru:1.18.31 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.31]]