{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.0.56 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.0.56.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.56.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.56.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.0.56<br>
|parent=1.17.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': May 13, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.221
|prev=beta 1.17.0.54
|next=beta 1.17.0.58
|nextparent=1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.0.56''' is the eighth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0]], released on May 13, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360061218671|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.0.56 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=May 13, 2021}}</ref> which adds lava aquifers and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Azalea]] and [[Flowering Azalea]]'''
* Now correctly turns into a tree if placed on Moss Block. 

'''[[Deepslate]] and [[Infested Deepslate]]'''
* Top and bottom textures are now applied in isotropic manner. 
** Due to tessellation limitations, isotropic are limited to deepslate when these textures are up and down (as this is a rotatable block) for now.

'''[[Powder Snow]]'''
* Textures are no longer randomly rotated.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Axolotl]]'''
* Axolotl no longer attacks invisible mobs. 
* Axolotl textures have been updated.

'''[[Glow Squid]]'''
* Naturally spawned Glow Squid now despawn.

'''[[Wither]]'''
* Is now immune to [[Powder Snow#Freezing|freezing]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Amethyst Geode]]'''
* Are now slightly rarer, from 1 geode in 48 chunks to 1 geode in 53 chunks.

=== General ===
'''Controller tooltips '''
* Added tooltips for: 
** Holding a Spyglass.
** Collecting [[lava]] from a [[cauldron]] using a [[bucket]].
** Collecting [[Powder Snow|powder snow]] from a powder snow block using a bucket.
** Empty lava into a cauldron from a bucket.
** Empty powder snow into a cauldron from a bucket.

'''[[Experimental Gameplay|Experiments]] toggle'''
* Added a warning for loading an old world with Experimental features in a new version of the game.
* Added a label that indicates that a world is Experimental.
* Added a description for Experimental features in the world creation screen.

=== Experimental ===
Changes have been made behind the Caves & Cliffs experiments toggle, which gives early access to the world generation coming in [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.0]].

'''[[Cave|Aquifers]]'''
* Aquifers below Y=0 will sometimes be made of lava.

== Fixes ==
'''Caves & Cliffs'''
* Bred Axolotl maintain their color after being placed from a Bucket ({{bug|MCPE-123328}}).
* Amethyst Buds and cluster breaking animation no longer floats in the air.
* Aligned in-hand rendering of Amethyst Bud items with ''Java Edition'' ({{bug|MCPE-126726}}).
* Players are now able to use Pick Block Small Dripleaf ({{bug|MCPE-123571}}).
* When bonemealing Small Dripleaf, the resulting Big Dripleaf is at least 2 blocks tall ({{bug|MC-214159}}).
* Mobs can once again pathfind around Pointed Dripstone.
* Naturally spawned Glow Squid now despawn ({{bug|MCPE-126701}}). 
* Using Pick Block on a Glow Squid in Creative now gives the Glow Squid Egg ({{bug|MCPE-126946}}).
* Lightning that strikes Lightning Rod no longer has the chance to trigger Skeleton traps.
* Multiple blocks can no longer be placed on Powder Snow ({{bug|MCPE-116205}}).
* Fences and Walls no longer connect to Powder Snow ({{bug|MCPE-113504}}).
* Fog effect is no longer applied to the third-person camera when the camera isn't inside Powder Snow ({{bug|MCPE-126028}}).
* Powder Snow Block no longer becomes invisible if the Player is extinguished by both the Powder Snow Block and any other method at the same time ({{bug|MCPE-124414}}).
* Powder Snow no longer has one corner that collides with mobs.

'''Mobs '''
* Skeletons transforming in to Strays now play appropriate transformation sounds.
* Withers no longer take freeze damage from Powder Snow ({{bug|MCPE-126788}}).
* Bees no longer gather nectar from Sweet Berry Bushes.
* Bees can once again enter Beehives and Bee Nests ({{bug|MCPE-122705}}). 

'''Gameplay '''
* Player who receives negative damage will not generate absorption heart ({{bug|MCPE-94178}}).
* When a Player using the touch interface presses and holds the crafting output window, they can rapidly craft items up to one stack ({{bug|MCPE-28689}}).

'''Iron and Gold ore '''
* Iron and Gold Ore now drops the correct block item instead of nothing when mined on worlds that have a Base Game Version locked to a value lower than 1.17.

'''Items '''
* Picking up part of a stack no longer picks up the entire stack and drops the excess ({{bug|MCPE-105330}}).

'''Player Animations '''
* Fixed Players showing the Bow holding animation after respawning when killed by another Player ({{bug|MCPE-58861}}).
* Fixed issue where certain items (Bow, Crossbow, Trident, shield in main hand) wouldn't bob with View Bobbing turned on ({{bug|MCPE-125853}}).  

'''Technical '''
* Fixed issue with Simburbia world where standing next to a windows shutter block would obscure the view with the "update" texture.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when using the {{cmd|stopsound}} command to stop the elytra.loop sound ({{bug|MCPE-120336}}).
* Fixed a merge bug when loading json definitions for Vanilla mobs.
* Fixed a bug with the summonable property of overridden vanilla mobs pre JSON version 1.8.0, which caused Bees to not be summonable ({{bug|MCPE-58557}}).
* The "has_equipment" filter will now properly evaluate custom entity spawn eggs.
* The "ImpactDamageSubcomponent" will again only prevent damage from being dealt to fire immune mobs if the 'catchFire' field is true and the projectile is on fire.
 
'''Graphical '''
* Fixed a crash on Windows 10 that can occur in ray tracing mode due to a stale pointer reference.
* Fixed various cases when ray tracing textures would not be reloaded (resolution switching, upscaling mode switching, ray tracing on/off toggling).
* Fixed Enchanted Bow's textures being too dark ({{bug|MCPE-119701}}).

'''Dedicated Server '''
* The dedicated server log will now list all Experiments enabled in a world when loading it.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.0.56]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.0.56]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.0.56]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.0.56]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.0.56 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.0.56]]