{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.25.1.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.2501.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.2501.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.25.1<br>
|parent=1.14.20
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' January 23, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.1
|prev=beta 1.14.2.51
|nextparent=1.14.21
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.25.1''' is the third and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.20]], released on January 23, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360038727152|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.25.1 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=January 23, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when searching the Marketplace.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning in an item.

'''General'''
* Transparent blocks will no longer prevent mob spawning on the same Y axes. ({{bug|MCPE-59682}})
* Tamed parrots will now sit on a player's shoulder correctly after the world save is converted to Bedrock.
* Split-screen players are no longer left in a limbo split-screen state when joining the game while the primary player quits at the same time.
 
'''[[Mob]]s'''
* Fixed an issue that prevented tamed [[wolves]] from moving towards each other to breed. ({{bug|MCPE-59570}}) 

'''[[Item]]s'''
* The [[honey bottle]] item tooltip now says 'Items' instead 'Nature'. ({{bug|MCPE-61195}})

'''[[Command]]s'''
* [[Beehive]]s and nests now have the correct front texture when placed by the {{cmd|setblock}} command.
* Defining an execute location no longer breaks the use of the detect command.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.25.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.25.1]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.25.1]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.25.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.25.1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.25.1]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.25.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.25.1]]