{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0.01}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.13.0.1.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.1.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.1.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.1<br>
|parent=1.13.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10''': June 27, 2019<br>'''Android''': July 1, 2019<ref>{{Tweet|JDavidFries|1145123281617297408|We are looking into the recent delays with the Android betas. Sorry to keep you waiting. _orz|June 29, 2019}}</ref>
|prevparent=1.12.1
|next=beta 1.13.0.2
|nextparent=1.13.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.1''' is the first beta version released for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]],<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360029655632|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.1 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=June 27, 2019}}</ref> which adds [[fox]]es and fixes some bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Structure void]]'''
* It is an intangible [[block]] used to indicate to the [[structure block]]s that certain [[air]] blocks can be overridden by previously existing blocks in the destination.
** Intended to be a replacement for the function [[barrier]] blocks used to convey (during early development), so they can form part of the structure itself.
* They are invisible.
** They are visible only when they are inside a structure being saved by a save [[structure block]]s and the toggle option "show invisible blocks" is true.
** Additionally, any placed structure void instantly becomes visible when the player holds the item in their hand, similar to the barrier.
* Allows for empty spaces in a structure.
** Unlike [[air]], it does not overwrite [[block]]s where it is loaded.
** Example: If the [[player]] loads a 2 block high structure with air at the top and a structure void at the bottom into a 2 block high area of stone, the top block becomes air but the bottom remains stone.
* Has a full block hitbox.
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Added [[fox]] spawn egg.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Fox]]es'''
* Spawn as red foxes in snowless [[taiga]] biomes, and as snow foxes in snowy taiga biomes
* Trusted foxes defend trusted players.
* Can pick up and carry items in their mouths.
** May sometimes eat what they are carrying.
* [[Wolves]] and [[polar bear]]s attack them.

=== Command format ===
* Added tab-complete for writing coordinate commands.
* Added new {{code|PersistComponent}} command for mob persistence.
* Improved many map-making commands.

=== General ===
'''Accessibility'''
* Accessibility settings can now be accessed from the in-game chat and has been revamped.

'''[[Menu screen]]'''
* Changed the font of the menus.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Structure block]]s'''
* Added Save and Load behind the [[Experimental Gameplay]] toggle.
* Added new textures and other functionalities.

=== Items ===

'''[[Map]]s'''
* Locked maps now have a unique inventory icon.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Camera]]'''
* Can no longer be obtained with the {{cmd|give}} command.
* Added functionality. Screenshots took by camera can now be saved into the {{cd|screenshots}} folder.

'''[[Illager captain]]s'''
* The [[player]] now correctly receives the [[Bad Omen]] effect whenever the illager captain dies in combat with the player.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Villager trade levels now match {{el|je}} with 5 profession level badges, rather than 3 level badges. ({{bug|MCPE-43206}})
* Cartographer [[trade]]s now require 11 [[glass pane]]s instead of 10.

=== General ===
* Improved performance.
* Added a message that informs players whether a [[Marketplace]] pack is compatible with their version of Minecraft (specifically if it includes blocks from a newer version of the game).
* Minecraft on iOS no longer shows the "Do you want to Close Minecraft?" pop-up since iOS doesn't support that app behavior.
* Map-making and add-on improvements.

'''How to Play'''
* Updated the information about repairing [[elytra]], which now describes using [[phantom membrane]]s to repair them instead of [[leather]]. ({{bug|MCPE-41608}})
* Tweaked the armor section so that it specifies that [[carved pumpkin]]s should be used as protection from [[endermen]].
* Tweaked the wording in the [[raid]]s section.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed inconsistent crash while navigating the game's UI.
* Fixed a crash related to cached resources that could sometimes occur.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when launching the game on Oculus Rift.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when exiting the game on Windows 10.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when resuming the game on Oculus Rift.
* Fixed a freezing issue that could sometimes occur when resuming the game on Windows 10 Mobile.
* Fixed a crashing issue on iOS when relaunching the game with a global resource pack applied.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when exploring world templates.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when launching the game on Xbox.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game on Xbox.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when typing some characters onto a sign.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when playing the Inspiration Hub world.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when trying to create a new world or when joining a multiplayer game.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when signing into Microsoft account.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when choosing certain skins.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when creating a new world using some marketplace packs.
* Fixed a crash that would happen when typing certain characters into chat. ({{bug|MCPE-44419}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when switching profiles on Xbox One.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when breaking a block underneath detector rail blocks.
* Fixed a crash that could occur if a split-screen player leaves the game while an execute command targets them in a function.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when leaving and rejoining a world whilst an adult panda is eating bamboo.
* Fixed a crash that could occur after a player leaves on 3-4 player split-screen on the "Wildlife: Jungle" map.

'''Performance'''
* Improved graphics rendering performance.
* Improved world launch time by optimizing network and resource tasks.
* Optimized grass growth block ticking.

'''General'''
* Beacons no longer play conduit ambient sound, but play the correct beacon ambient sound now. ({{bug|MCPE-34413}})
* Accessibility color and contrast fixes and tweaks for dropdowns, buttons and the Play screen.
* Players can now switch between user accounts on Xbox One without restarting the game.
* Fixed the messaging when trying to import a world template made in a newer version. 
* Leads now connect to mobs at the correct position. 
* The world loading screen now closes if the acceptable amount of chunks are loaded. ({{bug|MCPE-44815}})
** (Partial fix for {{bug|MCPE-44815}}, the issue with chunks sometimes not loading in correctly is still being worked on.)
* Furnaces now play all applicable sounds, and at the correct pitch. ({{bug|MCPE-43915}})
* Recently viewed skins now appear in the correct order in the skin picker menu.

'''Gameplay'''
* Splash water bottles now deal damage to blaze and enderman mobs again. ({{bug|MCPE-42589}})
* Split-screen players that join a world now spawn in the correct safe place and no longer spawn in the void.
* Arrows now cause sand and gravel to fall again. ({{bug|MCPE-18257}})
* Fixed pitch issue with the camera that caused the player to walk backwards when looking straight up.
* The camera now rotates correctly when in third-person view.
* Changed how the bell item is held in the player's hand, so that it is held with an item rather than a weapon. ({{bug|MCPE-43638}})
* Damage sound is no longer heard when a player falls or lands in Creative gamemode. ({{bug|MCPE-515}})
* The camera is no longer present in the Creative inventory without the "Education Edition" toggle being turned on.
* Players in water are now knocked back by TNT explosions.
* Fire charges launched from dispensers now ignite minecarts with TNT.
* Using bone meal on a flower now generates more flowers of that type around it, rather than just dandelions and poppies. ({{bug|MCPE-7979}})
* Shulker boxes can no longer be placed in the same space as the player. ({{bug|MCPE-39674}})
* Standing in a cauldron of lava now deals the correct amount of damage to players. ({{bug|MCPE-39356}})
* Using 'Place All' (Y) on the cartography table output slot only crafts as many of the shown result possible.
* The player now correctly receives the bad omen effect whenever the illager captain dies in combat with the player.
* Mobs can no longer break turtle eggs when mob griefing is disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-36245}})
* Falling snow no longer replaces other blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-44613}})
* Loyalty tridents now return to the correct player after bouncing off a shield. ({{bug|MCPE-44225}})
* Nether portals now spawn zombie pigmen in easy difficulty. ({{bug|MCPE-45934}})
* Fixed issue of Riptide tridents not propelling players forward correctly.
* Balanced enchants on books - those with 3 or more enchantments no longer always have Feather Falling IV and/or Blast Protection IV. ({{bug|MCPE-41944}})
* Campfires can now be doused with splash water potions only, to match the Java Edition.
* Explosions no longer destroy and drop end gateway blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-47174}})
* Fixed creeper farms by adjusting mob height spawning logic. ({{bug|MCPE-45935}})
* Lava now correctly affects mobs that come into contact with it. ({{bug|MCPE-45531}}) 

'''World generation'''
* Chests that generate in desert temples now face the correct way. ({{bug|MCPE-37393}})

'''Mobs'''
* Equipment on armor stands now render correctly if the armor stand is affected by the invisibility effect. ({{bug|MCPE-39779}})
* Iron golems are no longer pushed back by explosions. ({{bug|MCPE-43662}})
* Ravagers now pathfind through water.
* Fixed sitting position for baby zombie jockey.
* Fixed the death animation for spiders. ({{bug|MCPE-41417}})
* Lazy pandas no longer float above the ground when lying on their backs. ({{bug|MCPE-43164}})
* Baby pigs turn into baby pigmen when struck by lightning. ({{bug|MCPE-38134}})
* Fixed player alignment to bed when sleeping.
* Zombies can no longer break iron doors. ({{bug|MCPE-43725}})
* Village mobs (such as iron golems and cats) no longer spawn inside of blocks (such as grass path and farmland blocks). ({{bug|MCPE-44442}}, {{bug|MCPE-41886}})
* Mobs can now path find correctly through waterlogged blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-37005}})
* Mobs can now path find correctly on unlit campfire blocks.
* Mobs no longer attempt to path find over 1.5 block high obstacles. ({{bug|MCPE-45256}})
* Villagers now all go to sleep correctly when the night comes.
* Strays and skeletons now show enchanted bows when held.
* Villagers now show angry particles when hit by a player, even if they haven't been traded with yet. ({{bug|MCPE-29700}})
* Mobs now attack the player correctly while standing on soul sand.
* Villagers now close doors that have been opened by a player or redstone. ({{bug|MCPE-21946}})
* Fixed the "Toast" rabbit easter egg. ({{bug|MCPE-44510}}) 

'''Blocks'''
* TNT no longer falls through blocks when ignited. ({{bug|MCPE-41313}})
* Using pick block on lit redstone now gives the player the correct block. ({{bug|MCPE-43450}})
* Frosted ice no longer causes lag when it is waiting to melt underground. ({{bug|MCPE-39698}})
* Wood blocks now have directional placement. ({{bug|MCPE-43367}})
* Granite, diorite, and andesite can no longer be smelted into smooth stone. ({{bug|MCPE-45914}})
* Coarse dirt is no longer replaced with dirt when a tree is grown on top. ({{bug|MCPE-26215}})

'''Items'''
* Buttons no longer appear rotated in the player hotbar. ({{bug|MCPE-11365}}, {{bug|MCPE-42584}})
* The durability bar for shields now update correctly when sustaining damage. ({{bug|MCPE-44788}})

'''Graphical'''
* Pistons now have the correct textures when placed in any direction. ({{bug|MCPE-38053}})
* Fixed an issue that could cause the home screen to show black corrupted textures after resuming the game on Android. ({{bug|MCPE-39031}})
* Tweaked the position of the shield when held in the off-hand to fix a minor texture clipping issue.
* Invisible bedrock no longer emits stone particles when fallen on.
* Tweaked first-person hand attack animations.
* Fixed hand animation when switching to empty hand from held item.
* Fix an issue that caused block entities (such as beds) to not render after suspending and resuming the game.
* Fixed some graphical errors when launching the game on Oculus Rift.
* Fixed trident position issues when being held and thrown. 

'''User interface'''
* The background tint of the player coordinates is now consistent with the chat background. ({{bug|MCPE-43791}})
* Tweaked the controller cursor position when auto crafting with a full inventory.
* Players using touch screen can no longer break blocks when using touch-and-hold to use a fishing rod.

'''Commands'''
* Execute detect command now uses local coordinates correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-29942}})
** Modified {{cd|CommandPosition}} so that an optional offset can be specified to move the rotation point in case of a local coordinate.
** Fixed the {{cd|ExecuteCommand}} detect option to correctly use an entity rather than a position so that it can use the entity orientation to calculate camera relative offsets.

'''Add-ons and scripting engine'''
* Fixed MoLang scripting errors that were being logged for older content.
* Endermen with modified behavior can now be shot and damaged with projectiles. 
* Entities crossing chunk boundaries can no longer get corrupted due to the move. 
* Fixed humanoid eating animation.
* Fix issue of the mini bows rendering on all mobs other than players in scripting packs. 
* The "{{cd|has_equipment}}" filter work correctly with damageable items.
* Loading packs with lots of custom items now works correctly.
* Creating a new End gateway portal in the "Abstraction Cubes" Marketplace map now works correctly.
* Particle UVs no longer include lines of textures next to the selected UV.
* Custom entities using the "{{cd|nearest_attackable_target}}" now re-evaluate current target validity.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.1]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.1]]
[[pl:Beta 1.13.0.1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.1]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.1]]