{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.40.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.40.23.png
| edition = Bedrock 
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.4023.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.4023.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.40.23
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - September 29, 2022
| parent = 1.19.40
| prevparent = 1.19.31
| prev = Preview 1.19.40.22
| next = Preview 1.19.40.24
| nextparent = 1.19.41
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.40.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.40.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.40]], released on September 29, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/9527647861005|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.40.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 29, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs, and brings more parity of ''[[Java Edition]]''.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|summon}}'''
* Temporarily disabled the rotation for the {{cmd|summon}} command while a bug is worked on. ({{bug|MCPE-162264}}){{verify|correct citation?}}

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features" and "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''Commands'''
* Fixed a rotation issue when a Command Block executes {{cmd|execute facing}} and {{cmd|execute rotated}}. ({{bug|MCPE-162256}})
* Implemented the {{cmd|execute in}} command.
* Implemented the {{cmd|execute anchored}} command.
* Teleporting to an entity in another dimension is now allowed with the {{cmd|execute}} and {{cmd|teleport}} commands.
'''API'''
* Major breaking change to experimental JavaScript APIs:
** All script modules have been renamed to follow a new convention.
*** ''mojang-gametest -> @minecraft/server-gametest''
*** ''mojang-minecraft -> @minecraft/server''
*** ''mojang-minecraft-ui -> @minecraft/server-ui''
*** ''mojang-minecraft-server-admin -> @minecraft/server-admin''
*** ''mojang-net -> @minecraft/server-net''
** For example, rather than using:
*** import * as mc from "mojang-minecraft";
** Use:
***import * as mc from "@minecraft/server";
****Use of script eval() and Function() must be explicitly in json
****To do this, set script_evalian capabilities
***"capabilities":[ "script_eval"]
****Root path for imports has changed; scripts/prefix are no longer allowed.
****For imports, use import "./source.js" or import "source.js".
****Deprecated use of import "scripts/source.js". 
'''Actor Properties '''
*Fixed "bool_property" filters that didn't specify a "value". 
'''General '''
*Release <code>BlockGeometryComponent</code> out of experimental in JSON formats 1.19.40 and higher.
*Release <code>BlockMaterialInstancesComponent</code> out of experimental in JSON formats 1.19.40 and higher.
*Renamed <code>minecraft:block_light_filter</code> component to <code>minecraft:light_dampening</code>.

==Fixes==
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Getting killed by a mob with a renamed weapon now produces a death message with the item name. ({{bug|MCPE-162055}})
* Wither skeletons can now spawn inside of wither roses. ({{bug|MCPE-110127}})
* Decreased the amount of hunger used while swimming to match ''Java Edition''. ({{bug|MCPE-154452}})
* Librarian villagers can now offer enchanted books with 'Curse of Vanishing' and 'Curse of Binding'. ({{bug|MCPE-84906}})

'''Spectator Mode (Experimental)'''
* Shulker bullets no longer follow spectators. ({{bug|MCPE-162069}})
* Spectators are now invisible to normal players.
* If a player is in Spectator Mode and other non-spectating players are present on the server, the spectating player will not affect mob despawning anymore.
* If there are only spectating players on the server, mob despawning is now put on hold.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug where death messages were sometimes too long to fit on screen. ({{bug|MCPE-156550}})
* The inventory button for touch devices is now reset to its default appearance after closing the inventory.
* Fixed the crafting screen search string not saving correctly.
* Fixed an issue with the durability bar missing on inventory screens on Xbox. ({{bug|MCPE-162063}})
* Fixed a bug where the sign in button on Create New World did not work on some platforms.

'''Mobile Touch Controls'''
* Fixed a bug where items could not be removed from the hotbar by moving them onto other items in Creative Inventory on mobile devices.
* Fixed an issue where the stack splitting progress bar was not aligned on touch mode.
* Adjusted layout of the touch toolbar and status effect icons based on user feedback.
* Temporarily disabled the preview of our new Touch Stack Splitting UX while we work through feedback.

'''Mobs'''
* When a mob is a passenger in a boat, neither the boat nor the mob are allowed to change dimension. ({{bug|MCPE-154919}})

'''Blocks'''
* The book of an enchanting table now properly faces a nearby player. ({{bug|MCPE-29924}})

'''NPC (EDU)'''
* NPCs can now have no name, hiding the nametag above their head.

'''Marketplace'''
* Fixed an issue with Marketplace bundle prices not showing as free after purchasing.

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed a potential crash source in explosions.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when leaving a split screen session.</onlyinclude>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.40 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.40.23]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.40.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.40.23]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.40.23]]