{{distinguish|Bedrock Edition 1.18.10}}
{{Infobox version
|title=v1.18.1
|vernum=1.18.1
|server=1.18.1.02
|internal='''Windows''': 1.18.102.0<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.1.02<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.102.70<br>
'''PlayStation 4''': 2.35
|image=Bedrock 1.18.1 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.1.png
|edition=Bedrock
|date='''PlayStation 4''': December 2, 2021<br>'''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire, Xbox One''': December 6, 2021
|prevparent=1.18.0
|prev=
|next=1.18.2
|nextparent=1.19.0
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.18.1.02.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.18.1.02.zip Linux]
}}

'''1.18.1''' is a hotfix to {{BE}} released for PlayStation consoles on December 2, 2021, and for most platforms except the Nintendo Switch on December 6, 2021, which fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4415394258317|title=Minecraft - 1.18.1 (Bedrock)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=December 2, 2021}}</ref> This version is compatible with all Bedrock platforms running on [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.0|1.18.0]].

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that could occur when copying a world backup in certain languages on PlayStation.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when chatting and playing on Realms.
* Decreased the amount of Diamond Ore that generates to match ''Java Edition''.
* Fixed lighting bugs when removing light sources after returning to the Overworld from other dimensions. ({{bug|MCPE-145828}})
* Players no longer have problems moving after respawning or getting out of a Bed.
* Added a warning prompt explaining potential loss of data when setting File Storage Location to External on Android devices.
* Fixed various crashes and storage-related issues with Android multi-user functionality and Amazon Kids/Freetime. ({{bug|MCPE-106524}}, {{bug|MCPE-107503}}, {{bug|MCPE-37685}})
* Fixed simulation stopping in multiplayer sessions when other players move away from one player’s render distance. ({{bug|MCPE-147391}})
* The teleport command will no longer succeed when 'checkForBlocks' is true and the destination is obstructed.
* Fixed an issue that could cause a faulty purchase page for Realms when the maximum number of Realms are already owned.
* Optimized the Marketplace Inventory screen and improved loading of content images.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.18.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.18.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.18.1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.18.1]]
[[ru:1.18.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.1]]