{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.2.1
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = December 3, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 26.0.23|26.0.23]]
| prevparent = 1.2.0
| prev = 
| next = 1.2.2
| nextparent = 
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.2.1''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on December 3, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/282|title=Release 1.2.1 (1.26.0.23)|website=GitHub|date=December 3, 2025}}</ref><ref>
{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/41627058435213-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-26-0-23|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.26.0.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=December 3, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added Edit Tags menu item in the structure panel, so tags for one or more checked structures can be edited.
* Added modal popup 'Edit Tags' to add new or remove existing tags from the selected structures.
* Added {{cd|isActive}} property to {{cd|IModalTool}} to check for the active state.
* Added {{cd|onSelectedToolChanged}} property to {{cd|IModalToolContainer}} to listen for global modal tool change events.
* Added settings persistence for the scripted extensions.

== Changes ==
* Updated Elevation icons for Terrain Tool.
* Updated selected modal tool to toggle off when changing out of Tool mode, then toggle on after returning back.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug where enabling "restrict smart fill to selection" in Smart Fill caused the project to crash and exit for large selection areas.
* Fixed a bug where cursor bound widgets triggered state change events while hidden.
* Fixed a bug where the game would freeze when using the Terrain Tool's Elevation mode to Lower the terrain near the bottom of the world.
* Fixed the cursor distance limit to match the spherical view distance setting.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.2.1]]