{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.11.0.9.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.11.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>April 3, 2019
|prevparent=1.10.1
|prev=beta 1.11.0.8
|next=beta 1.11.0.10
|nextparent=1.11.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.11.0.9''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0]], released on April 3, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360025951072|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.11.0.9 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=April 3, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed scripting crash when accessing health component on entities that don't have health (boats, leads, etc). 
* Fixed a crash that can occur if the primary user exits the current world while a split-screen player is trying to join. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when receiving the Bad Omen effect. 
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.

'''General'''
* The correct button tooltips are now shown when reassigning them on Nintendo Switch. 
* Fixed a bug on Nintendo Switch that would prevent the command buttons from working after running a command or typing in chat.
* Players can now select the Mario skins from the expanded skin pack list when in-game. 
* The skin picker is no longer limited to 15 owned skin packs. 
* Remapping controls on Nintendo Switch now toggle correctly in the settings. 
* Text-to-speech now works more consistently on Nintendo Switch. 
* Text to speech now reads modal popups correctly.
* Players can view the skin selection menu when offline on Nintendo Switch without receiving internet connection message. 

'''Gameplay'''
* TNT now knocks back healing players. 
* Interacting with a grindstone no longer 'uses' a held item. 

'''Blocks'''
* Seagrass can no longer delete blocks above it as it grows. ({{bug|MCPE-43617}})

'''Mobs'''
* Mobs now spawn properly in icy biomes. 

'''Graphical'''
* Replaced the tripwire texture. 
* Note particle color now corresponds to note block pitch.
* Reverted to old particle system for note blocks.

'''Commands'''
* Using the {{cmd|clear}} command no longer shows an error if a block value is not included.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.9]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.9]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.11.0.9]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.9]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.11.0.9]]
[[ru:Beta 1.11.0.9 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.0.9]]