{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.1021.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.10.21
| image = Bedrock 1.21.10.21 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.10.21.png
| build = 24973907
| editorver = 0.6.5
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952101021 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962101021 (x86, 34)<br />
972101021 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982101021 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = May 29, 2024
| server = 1.21.10.21
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.10.21.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.10.21.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.20
| prevparent = 1.21.3
| prev = Preview 1.21.10.20
| next = Preview 1.21.10.22
| nextparent = 1.21.21
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.10.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.21.10.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20]]{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.21.10 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.20|1.21.20]].<ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/27935763028237-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-20-21</ref>}}, released on May 29, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/27128575309325|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.10.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 29, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Game Tips]]'''
*Added chat game tip. The tip appears when there are remote players in a world or if cheats are enabled.
**If the chat game tip can be shown for a player, the open chat instructions posted in the chat are removed.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Coral Wall Fan]] and [[Dead Coral Wall Fan]]'''
* The different coral hang type and dead bit [[block states]] for the <code>coral_fan_hang</code>, <code>coral_fan_hang2</code>, and <code>coral_fan_hang3</code> IDs have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="4" | {{BlockSprite|coral-fans}} <code>coral_fan_hang</code>
| {{BlockSprite|tube-coral-wall-fan}} <code>tube_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|brain-coral-wall-fan}} <code>brain_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dead-tube-coral-wall-fan}} <code>dead_tube_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dead-brain-coral-wall-fan}} <code>dead_brain_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| rowspan="4" | {{BlockSprite|coral-fans}} <code>coral_fan_hang2</code>
| {{BlockSprite|bubble-coral-wall-fan}} <code>bubble_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|fire-coral-wall-fan}} <code>fire_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dead-bubble-coral-wall-fan}} <code>dead_bubble_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dead-fire-coral-wall-fan}} <code>dead_fire_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| rowspan="2" | {{BlockSprite|coral-fans}} <code>coral_fan_hang3</code>
| {{BlockSprite|horn-coral-wall-fan}} <code>horn_coral_wall_fan</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|dead-horn-coral-wall-fan}} <code>dead_horn_coral_wall_fan</code>
|}

'''[[Slab]]s'''
* The different stone slab type [[block states]] for the <code>stone_block_slab4</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="5" | {{BlockSprite|mossy-stone-brick-slab}} <code>stone_block_slab4</code>
| {{BlockSprite|mossy-stone-brick-slab}} <code>mossy_stone_brick_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|smooth-quartz-slab}} <code>smooth_quartz_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|stone-slab}} <code>normal_stone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cut-sandstone-slab}} <code>cut_sandstone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|cut-red-sandstone-slab}} <code>cut_red_sandstone_slab</code>
|}

'''[[Mossy Stone Brick Slab]]'''
*It now has a hardness of 1.5.

=== General ===
'''[[Character Creator]]'''
*Updated the Dressing Room category names for "Headwear", "Outerwear", and "Footwear".

'''[[Loading tips]]'''
*Added animated title to the loading tips dialog.

'''[[Realms]]'''
*A local World can now be uploaded to a Preview Realm World through the Edit World screen, similar to a non-Preview Realm.

'''[[Settings]]'''
*The control customization screen is now automatically exited when input mode is switched to something other than touch controls.

'''UI'''
*Refreshed assets for Achievements screen: all achievements unlocked illustration, no achievement unlocked illustration, and the gamer score icon.
*Added a button for exiting the world from the death screen when in Hardcore mode. (''Preview'' only)

=== Technical ===
'''[[Biome]]s'''
*Biome components {{cd|minecraft:forced_features}} and {{cd|minecraft:ignore_automatic_features}} are now deprecated.

'''[[API]]'''
*{{cd|EntityComponent}}
**Moved class {{cd|EntityMovementComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Moved class {{cd|EntityLavaMovementComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Moved class {{cd|EntityMovementGlideComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Moved class {{cd|EntityMovementSwayComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}.
**Moved class {{cd|EntityUnderwaterMovementComponent}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|1.12.0}}. 

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
*{{cd|EntityBreathableComponent}}
**Changed function {{cd|setAirSupply(value: number): void}} to property {{cd|airSupply: number}} in {{cd|beta}}.
**Added property {{cd|readonly}} {{cd|canBreathe: boolean}} to {{cd|beta}}.
*Added class {{cd|PlayerCursorInventoryComponent}} which adds read-only access to the players cursor inventory and the ability to clear it.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.10.21 Preview
|;old
|176334|Paper Doll doesn't show up if Customize Controls is enabled
|178820|Jump button gets smaller when going up or down scaffolding or ladders
|179650|Banners no longer appear in the recipe book
|179664|Wolf armor generates way less breaking particles than on Java
|179672|Help button on Structure block leads to the block section
|180234|New Bedrock d pad when customising resets when going into inventory or exiting flying
|181245|Absorption Hearts are Rendered as Empty When Only Half a Heart Is Taken
|181275|Sunflowers seems to be missing a part of their textures
|otherissuescount=6}}
'''Others'''
*Mounted entities are no longer immune to Wind Charge projectile damage.
*Tweaked the way the dismount position is calculated to better align with moving vehicles. This could result in minor differences when dismounting fast vehicles.
*Typing into the search box on the Realms Stories Members tab no longer overrides the filter options. 
*Fixed a crash that could occur when viewing Realms Stories on a busy Realm.
*New lines are no longer removed from Realms Stories posts that are displayed in the story feed.
*Fixed item and block corruption when converting worlds from legacy Console Edition.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{fnlist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.10.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.10.21]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock Preview 1.21.10.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.10.21]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.10.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.10.21]]
[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.20 betas]]