{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.2.0.31.png
|edition=Bedrock Edition
|type=Beta
|parent=1.2.0
|date=September 6, 2017
|prevparentlink=Pocket Edition 1.1.7
|prevparent=1.1.7
|prev=beta 1.2.0.25
|next=
|nextparent=1.2.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.2.0.31''' (also known as '''1.2 build 9''') is the ninth and final build released for [[Bedrock Edition 1.2.0|1.2.0]] that added new features and fixed bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004165531|title=Minecraft Win 10/Android Beta - 1.2 Build 9}}</ref>

== Additions ==
==== Coordinates ====
* Now available as a {{cmd|gamerule}} and a toggle under settings.

==== Copy world ====
* New feature ability to copy worlds.
* {{OS|xbox one}} The button is now next to "delete world" and "export world".

== Changes ==
=== UI ===
==== Inventory ====
* Tweaked Inventory and Crafting Table controls on Pocket UI.
* Classic UI Inventory and Crafting Table can now be controllable as like [[Windows 10 Edition]] on phones again.

==== Recipe book ====
* Visibility status now saved separately for inventory & crafting.

==== Settings ====
* Tweaked the UI to fit screen devices.

=== Gameplay ===
==== Entities ====
* Added a per entity type limit that only affects creepers and ghasts to not spawn if there is already a certain number in a 5&times;5 chunk area.
* Tweaked entity counting to improve performance.

==== Custom Skins ====
* Removed upload custom skin button in Xbox One beta until the console platforms complete the work to allow uploading of skins to the console.

==== Items ====
* Changed the highlight slot image and adjusted layering to have it under the item.

== Fixes ==
* Items are no longer deselected when the virtual keyboard closes
* Fixed a crash associated with storage
* Fixed a crash when the host leaves the session while in split-screen
* Fixed a crash when traveling through the [[End portal]] while the [[inventory]] window is open
* Players can again switch between skins from the same skin/mash-up pack
* [[Creeper]]s should always explode now and won't stop exploding just because you hit them
* Can no longer attach blocks (like torches) to cocoa beans
* Fixed auto selecting after crafting to select the correct item
* Fixed some world conversion bugs
* No more crashes when attempting to use the skin picker with the Korean language selected
* [[Totem of Undying]] now protects you from fall damage
* Fixed a crash on Win 10 devices running an older Win 10 update
* Players are no longer transferred back to the play menu when attempting to connect via split-screen in a multiplayer game
* Fixed a crash when a player loaded a custom [[superflat]] world with the player located close to an [[Ocean Monument]]
* Players won't mine blocks anymore when using the touch-and-hold method to use a held item
* Fixed a crash when a player used an [[Ender pearl]] to teleport through an End gateway in a converted world
* Converted worlds with DLC applied again have the DLC applied when downloaded to another console on the same XBL account
* Splash text no longer pulses really quickly when cancelling out of a level load
* HUD opacity now changes to max for ~5 seconds and fades back to what you have set in options after changing hotbar slots
* Players should now get more correct messaging when blocked on connecting to a partner server
* Players can now reenter partner servers without having to restart the game (Android only)
* Drift has been reduced in creative flight mode and players won't drop out of flight by touching the ground.
* Descending with the right joystick in creative mode is no longer super slow (Xbox only)
* No more blank profiles on Xbox Live profiles
* Fixed a crash that occurred after changing players
* Players again start with items in their inventory in [[creative]] mode
* If the hotbar is full and a player selects a creative item, it picks up the item and moves focus to the hotbar
* Fixed some chat bugs
* Off-hand items can be removed again
* Game no longer freezes on the "saving world" message if the player signs out of their profile while in a world
* [[Cake]] now has a stack size of 64
* {{cmd|execute ... detect}} now has the right position offsets</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.0.31]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.0.31]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.2.0.31]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.2.0.31]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 베타 1.2.0.31]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.2.0.31]]
[[ru:Beta 1.2.0.31 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.2.0.31]]