{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.04}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.0.4.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.4.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.4.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.0.4<br>
|parent=1.14.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 30, 2019
|prevparent=1.13.3
|prev=beta 1.14.0.3
|next=beta 1.14.0.5
|nextparent=1.14.0.12
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.0.4''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]], released on October 30, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360035697731|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.0.4 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=October 30, 2019}}</ref> which makes some changes to [[honey bottle]]s and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Honey bottle]]s'''
* Can now be stacked up to 16.
* Can now be crafted with 1 [[honey block]] and 4 [[glass bottle]]s.
* Changed the texture to match {{el|je}}.

'''[[Honeycomb]]s'''
* Changed the texture to match ''Java Edition''.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when opening the character creator with a custom skin selected.

'''General'''
* Fixed another issue that was causing player skins to revert to a default Alex or Steve after relaunching the game.
* Platform specific skins can now be seen in the character creator.
* Split-screen players now see the correct player avatars in the pause menu.
* Fixed an issue that was preventing the "Sail the 7 Seas" achievement from being unlocked on Xbox One.
* Fixed an issue with the screen reader option being enabled even after dismissal. ({{bug|MCPE-43306}})
* Fixed an issue that was causing the player skin to take too long to load in. ({{bug|MCPE-45038}})

'''Gameplay'''
* The "Body Guard" achievement can be unlocked once again.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* Fixed a bug that was causing tamed entity damage to be counted as coming from mounted players.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.4]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.4]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.0.4]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.4]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 베타 1.14.0.4]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.0.4]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.0.4 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock beta 1.14.0.4]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.4]]