{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.06}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.14.0.6.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.6.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.6.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.0.6<br>
|parent=1.14.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' November 6, 2019
|prevparent=1.13.3
|prev=beta 1.14.0.5
|next=
|nextparent=1.14.0.12
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.0.6''' is the fifth and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]], released on November 6, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360035933791|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.0.6 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=November 6, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when throwing lingering potions.

'''General'''
* Fixed capes not rendering in some skin packs. ({{bug|MCPE-54181}})
* Added an extra fix that prevents skins taking too long to load in. ({{bug|MCPE-45038}})
* Fixed misspelled splash text.
* Clearing the player's inventory with commands now works more consistently in certain Marketplace maps.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed a bug that was preventing redstone signals from traveling across some chunk borders. 
* The player's hands no longer rotate off-screen when riding a horse and holding a map.
* Carved pumpkins once again create iron golems when dispensed.

'''Mobs'''
* Bees can now pass through open doors.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.6]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.6]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.0.6]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.6]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 베타 1.14.0.6]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.0.6]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.0.6 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Bedrock beta 1.14.0.6]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.6]]