{{Infobox version
| edition = Bedrock
| image = Bedrock 1.16.0.60.png
| type = Beta
| internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.60.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.60.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.0.60<br>
| parent = 1.16.0
| date = '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' May 7, 2020
| prevparent = 1.14.60
| prev = beta 1.16.0.59
| next = beta 1.16.0.61
| nextparent = 1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.0.60''' is the twelfth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]], released on May 7, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360043246051|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.0.60 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=May 7, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several graphics-related crashes.
* Fixed a bug where the game would crash if the player attempted to purchase coins without being signed into Xbox Live .
* Fixed a crash that could occur when attempting to create a world with the "ZigZag" resource pack applied.

'''Graphics'''
* The fancy leaves option now appears correctly in the settings on Windows 10.
* Fixed an issue where cubemaps were not fully updating when resource packs were changed. 
* Fixed a bug that could sometimes cause fonts to disappear after quitting to the main menu. 
* Fixed an issue with flickering usernames above players' heads. 
* Fixed an issue where chunks would flicker after altering render distance values.
* Fixed an issue where the missing textures were constantly being converted which would cause the game to spam warnings in the log message.

'''General'''
* Running the {{cmd|kill}} command will now correctly kill summoned NPCs ({{bug|MCPE-65403}}).
* Set the default chat font to Mojangles ({{bug|MCPE-45857}}).

'''Marketplace'''
* Fixed bug where, on some platforms, thumbnails would infinitely load in the marketplace.
* Fixed issue where the download bar was not always functioning correctly.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.60]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.60]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.0.60]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.60]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.0.60]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.0.60 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.0.60]]