{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.0.66.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.66.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.66.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.0.66<br>
|parent=1.16.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' June 4, 2020
|prevparent=1.14.60
|prev=beta 1.16.0.65
|next=beta 1.16.0.67
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.0.66''' is the sixteenth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0]], released on June 4, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360044492151|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.0.66 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=June 4, 2020}}</ref> which fixes bugs and adds two new emotes.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Server list]]'''
* UI has been updated.
* Galaxite has appeared as a featured server and was inaccessible, displaying the text "Coming Soon".

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Emotes]]'''
* Added "Over There!" and "Simple Clap" emotes.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when attempting to create world with the Tropical City Resort mash-up pack.
* Fixed an issue that could cause a hang on start up when trying to open certain worlds.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue with projectiles being destroyed prematurely if they didn't deal damage. This is now optional with the addition of 2 new flags to the projectile.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue that could cause chests to generate without loot ({{bug|MCPE-69003}}).

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed rendering issues while riding a mount

'''Add-ons and scripting'''
* Fixed an issue that could occur when the movement component is removed, meaning that a mob's speed has to ramp up from 0 again.
* Changes to components: {{cd|set_last_hurt_requires_damage}} and {{cd|destroy_on_hit_requires_damage}}. Each defaulting to true to respect old behavior, but can now be set to false if it is desired to have a projectile that is destroyed even when it doesn't deal damage.

'''Commands'''
* Added new overload for {{cmd|replaceitem}} with an option for {{cd|destroy}} (the old behavior) or {{cd|keep}} (the command will return an error if an item occupies that slot).
* Fixed a bug where a mob wouldn't delete its goal if all goals were trying to be removed.
* Fixed spamming of particles, sounds, and events for looped, non-zero-length animations with timelines.
* Fixed a syntax error issue when running the {{cmd|xp}} command with levels.
* Fixed an issue with “A Nightmare in Candyland” map which was no longer teleporting players correctly.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.66]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.66]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.0.66]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.0.66]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.0.66]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.0.66 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.0.66]]