{{Infobox version
|title=v1.9.0
|vernum=1.9
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.9.0 banner.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.9.0.png
|date=February 5, 2019
|server=1.9.0.15
|internal='''Windows 10''': 1.9.15.0
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.9.0.15.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.9.0.15.zip Linux]
|prevparent=1.8.0
|prev=1.8.1
|nextparent=1.10.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/1.9.0}}

'''1.9.0''', the second experimental release for '''[[Village & Pillage]]''', is a major update to {{el|be}} released on February 5, 2019.<ref name="website">{{Mcnet|minecraft-bedrock-update|Minecraft Bedrock Updated!|February 5, 2019|Tom Stone}}</ref> It adds more features from the [[Village & Pillage]] update that weren't added in [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0|1.8.0]], such as new [[flower]]s, [[pillager]]s, new types of [[stairs]] and [[slab]]s, different wood types for [[sign]]s, and new blocks.<ref name="website"/><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360021523671|title=Minecraft - 1.9.0 (Bedrock)|date=February 5, 2019}}</ref> This is the first version released in 2019 for the Nintendo Switch.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Barrel
|Bell
|Blast Furnace
|Cartography Table
|Smoker
|Fletching Table
|Cornflower
|Lily of the Valley
|Grindstone
|Lantern
|Spruce Sign
|Birch Sign
|Acacia Sign
|Jungle Sign
|Dark Oak Sign
|Smithing Table
|Smooth Stone
|Smooth Sandstone
|Smooth Red Sandstone
|Smooth Quartz Block
|Stone Slab
|Andesite Slab
|Polished Andesite Slab
|Diorite Slab
|Polished Diorite Slab
|Granite Slab
|Polished Granite Slab
|Mossy Stone Brick Slab
|Mossy Cobblestone Slab
|Smooth Sandstone Slab 
|Smooth Red Sandstone Slab
|Smooth Quartz Slab
|Red Nether Brick Slab
|End Stone Brick Slab
|Cut Sandstone Slab
|Cut Red Sandstone Slab
|Stone Stairs
|Andesite Stairs
|Polished Andesite Stairs
|Diorite Stairs
|Polished Diorite Stairs
|Granite Stairs
|Polished Granite Stairs
|Mossy Stone Brick Stairs
|Mossy Cobblestone Stairs
|Smooth Sandstone Stairs
|Smooth Red Sandstone Stairs
|Smooth Quartz Stairs
|Red Nether Brick Stairs
|End Stone Brick Stairs
|Brick Wall
|Andesite Wall
|Diorite Wall
|Granite Wall
|Prismarine Wall
|Stone Brick Wall
|Mossy Stone Brick Wall
|Sandstone Wall
|Red Sandstone Wall
|Nether Brick Wall
|Red Nether Brick Wall
|End Stone Brick Wall
|Pillager Spawn Egg Revision 1
}}

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]], [[bell]], [[blast furnace]], [[cartography table]], and [[smoker]]'''
* Currently have no functionality.
* Only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Fletching table]]'''
* Can be crafted in a [[crafting table]] using a crafting table and [[arrow]].
* Currently has no functionality.
* Only available through Experimental Gameplay.
{{Crafting
|A1 = Crafting Table
|B1 = Arrow
|Output = Fletching Table
|type= Decoration block
|ignoreusage=1
}}

'''[[Flower]]s'''
* Added [[cornflower]].
** Gives [[blue dye]].
** Appears in [[plains]] biomes.
* Added [[lily of the valley]].
** Appears in [[forest]] [[biome]]s.

'''[[Grindstone]]'''
* Currently has no functionality.
* Only available through Experimental Gameplay.

'''[[Lantern]]'''
* Acts as a new light source.
* Emits a light level of 15.
* Can currently only be obtained from the [[Creative]] inventory with Experimental Gameplay enabled.

'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Now come in all different wood types: spruce, birch, acacia, jungle, and dark oak.

'''[[Smithing table]]'''
* Can be crafted in a [[crafting table]] using a crafting table and [[cobblestone]].
* Currently has no functionality.
* Only available through Experimental Gameplay.
{{Crafting
|A1 = Crafting Table
|B1 = Cobblestone
|Output = Smithing Table
|type= Decoration block
|ignoreusage=1
}}

'''Smooth blocks'''
* Added [[smooth stone]], smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone, and smooth quartz blocks. (Note: Smooth Sandstone and Smooth Red Sandstone are new blocks; the old blocks with those names were renamed Cut Sandstone and Cut Red Sandstone in this release - see Changes below.)

'''[[Slab]]s'''
* Added stone, andesite, polished andesite, diorite, polished diorite, granite, polished granite, mossy stone brick, mossy cobblestone, smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone, smooth quartz, red nether brick, and end stone brick slabs.
* Added cut sandstone and cut red sandstone slabs.

'''[[Stairs]]'''
* Added stone, andesite, polished andesite, diorite, polished diorite, granite, polished granite, mossy stone brick, mossy cobblestone, smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone, smooth quartz, red nether brick, and end stone brick stairs.

'''[[Wall]]s'''
* Added brick, andesite, diorite, granite, prismarine, stone brick, mossy stone brick, sandstone, red sandstone, nether brick, red nether brick, and end stone brick walls.

=== Items ===
'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* [[Pillager]]

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Pillager]]s'''
* They are hostile mobs, considered a subset of [[illager]]s.
* Have {{Health|24}} [[health]].
* They wield [[crossbow]]s.
* Drop [[arrow]]s and their [[crossbow]]s when killed (affected by [[Looting]]).
* They will raid, or take over, [[village]]s, killing [[villager]]s.
* They can't equip armor of any type.
* Available only through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Bamboo forest]]s'''
* New [[biome]] variant of [[jungle]]s.
* Contain bamboo shoots, [[podzol]], and [[panda]]s.
* Only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
*[[Jungle pyramid]]s cannot generate here.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Function (Bedrock)|Functions]]'''
* Can now be run every tick creating an update loop.{{more info}}

'''[[Gamerule]]s'''
* {{cd|functioncommandlimit}}
** Sets the maximum number of commands that can be executed by /function at once.
* {{cd|immediateRespawn}}
** Allows players to respawn immediately without showing the [[death screen]].
* {{cd|showDeathMessages}}
** Allows players to select whether a message appears in chat when a player or tamed mob dies.

'''{{cmd|particle}}'''
* Added the following particles:
** {{cd|minecraft:test_flipbook}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_vertexrandom}}
** {{cd|minecraft:balloon_gas_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:mobspell_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:basic_crit_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:portal_directional}}
** {{cd|minecraft:bubble_column_down_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:portal_east_west}}
** {{cd|minecraft:portal_north_south}}
** {{cd|minecraft:bubble_column_up_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:crit_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:splash_spell_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:end_chest}}
** {{cd|minecraft:totem_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:evocation_fang_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:water_splash_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:evoker_spell}}
** {{cd|minecraft:water_wake_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:magnesium_salts_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:wither_boss_invulnerable}}
** {{cd|minecraft:mob_portal}}

'''Tags'''
* Custom tags can be applied to entities and players to create more flexible selector groupings.
* Added {{cd|has_tag}} filter in components to allow checks to see if an entity has a specified tag.
* Autocomplete can be used for tags.
* {{cmd|kill}} [[command]] now kills Creative mode players.

'''{{cmd|tellraw}}'''
* Enables the use of raw text formatting to be able to send translatable text output to chat using JSON.

=== General ===
'''[[Pause menu]]'''
* Added a new "feedback" button.
** Shows links to the Minecraft [[feedback site]], the [[bug tracker]], and Mojang support site.
* The "How to Play" button is now visible from the in-game settings menu.

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added new splash texts:
**"Machine learning!"
**"Release the Snord!"
**"Team Mystic!"
**"Living, breathing world!"
**"Innovating innovation!"
**"Change my mind."
**"There's no stopping the Trollmaso."
**"This is good for Realms."
**"High-key!"
**"Funding secured!"
**"Throw yourself at the ground and miss"
**"YANNY OR LAUREL???"
**"Truly gone fishing!"
**"So. You read splash text."
**"Very influential in its circle!"
**"Warning! A huge battleship \"STEVE\" is approaching fast!"
**"Alexander Hamilton!"
**"Yay, puppies for everyone!"
**"You're going too fast!"
**"That's Numberwang!"
**"Thanks for the fish!"
**"Take the elevator to the mezzanine!"
**"Take an egg beater and beat it against a skillet!"
**"Stop being reasonable, this is the Internet!"
**"So sweet, like a nice bon bon!"
**"#Blessed!"
**"Have you finished your homework?"
**"We're working on it!"
**"Like that smash button!"
**"Minecraft 2 unconfirmed!"
**"A circle-free environment!"
**"Llama, llama, duck!"
**"When it's ready!"
**"Make a viral video!!1"
**"Artisinal!"
**"The Floor is Lava!"
**"Savage Dad jokes!"
**"Protec but also attac"
**"Potatoes gonna potate!"
**"Bananas!"
**"zhoolor"
**"mixer.com/minecraft"
**"Oh geez!"
**"Crush it!"
**"Keep your head down, there's two of us in here now. Remember?"
**"Sodium free!"
**"What DOES the fox say?"
**"#gartzkebrokeit"

'''Minecraft Script Engine'''
* Uses JavaScript.
* Scripts can be written and bundled with [[behavior pack]]s to listen and respond to game events, get and modify data in components that entities have, and affect different parts of the game.
* Only available on Windows 10, and only when the Use [[Experimental Gameplay]] setting is enabled.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Moss stone]]'''
* Has been renamed "Mossy Cobblestone".

'''[[Nether brick fence]]s'''
* Changed the crafting recipe 4 nether brick blocks and 2 nether brick items.
** The previous crafting recipe is now used to make a nether brick [[wall]].

'''[[Smooth sandstone]] and [[smooth red sandstone]]'''
* Have been renamed "Cut Sandstone" and "Cut Red Sandstone", respectively.

'''[[Sign]]'''
* Has been renamed to "Oak Sign".
** An oak sign now requires oak planks to craft, instead of any wood planks.

'''[[Stone slab]]s'''
* Have been renamed to "Smooth Stone Slab" and now require smooth stone to craft, instead of regular stone.
** The previous crafting recipe is now used to make a new stone slab.

'''[[Sandstone]] and [[red sandstone]] stairs and slabs'''
* Can no longer be crafted using any type of sandstone or red sandstone, but now require regular sandstone or red sandstone to craft it.

'''[[Cauldron]]s'''
* Can now be used to hold [[lava]].
** Will burn entities inside it and emit light.

'''[[Tripwire]]s'''
* Are now activated when broken, unless broken with [[shears]].

'''[[Wool]]'''
* Renamed white colored wool to "White Wool".

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Passive mob]]s'''
* Now randomly enter [[Breeding|love mode]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Jungle]]s'''
* Bamboo can now generate in small shoots in all jungle biomes, but only in [[Experimental Gameplay]].

=== Gameplay ===
* Improved performance when using Function commands; they are now pre-compiled on world 
'''[[Loading tips]]'''
* Added several new loading screen tips and trivia suggested by the community.

'''[[Chat]]'''
* A notification is now sent to chat when a tamed animal dies. ({{bug|MCPE-35138}})

=== General ===
'''[[Multiplayer]]'''
* Players can now join and play games with a minor version mismatch. ({{bug|MCPE-38945}})

'''[[Realms]]'''
* Expired Realms can now be deleted from the world list.

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Removed the following splashes:
** "1 star! Deal with it notch!"
** "Toilet friendly!"
** "Annoying touch buttons!"
** "Pocket!"
** "Open-world alpha sandbox!"
** "Touch compatible!"
** "Undocumented!"
** "Not on steam!"
** "Minors welcome!"
** "BAYKN"
** "Age of Wonders is better!"
** "Lewd with two dudes with food!"
** "BTAF used to be good!"
** "I miss ADOM!"
** "SWM forever!"
** "Woo, facepunch!"
** "Woo, somethingawful!"
** "Woo, /v/!"
** "Woo, tigsource!"
** "Woo, minecraftforum!"
** "Woo, worldofminecraft!"
** "Woo, reddit!"
** "Woo, 2pp!"
** "Huge tracts of land!"
** "Kinda like Lemmings!"
** "DungeonQuest is unfair!"
** "Also try VVVVVV!"
** "Also try Super Meat Boy!"
** "Also try Terraria!"
** "Also try Mount And Blade!"
** "Also try Project Zomboid!"
** "Also try World of Goo!"
** "Also try Limbo!"
** "Also try Pixeljunk Shooter!"
** "Also try Braid!"
** "Totally forgot about Dre!"
** "Doesn't use the U-word!"
** "SOPA means LOSER in Swedish!"
** "Also try Monument Valley!"

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes/performance'''
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when replacing a wooden door with an iron door. ({{bug|MCPE-37941}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using pick block on a chest filled with written books. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when pistons pushed blocks. 
* Fixed a crash that could happen when changing network modes on Nintendo Switch. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when removing the Gear VR headset during gameplay. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when quickly signing in and out of Xbox Live.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when resuming the game on mobile devices.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when resuming the game on Windows 10 Mobile devices.
* Fixed a crash that could occur after exiting the settings screen.
* Fixed a bug where the game could become unresponsive after being disconnected from a multiplayer game.
* Shulker boxes in item frames no longer cause the game to crash.
* Optimizations to chunk synchronization between client and server.

'''General'''
* Players can no longer change their customized player permissions while playing multiplayer games.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed players spawning in mid-air and falling to their death when loading a world. ({{bug|MCPE-38374}})
* Fixed touch controls so players no longer get stuck in sneak position when underwater. ({{bug|MCPE-38212}})
* Fixed an issue that could cause a sudden change in direction on touch screen devices. ({{bug|MCPE-35910}})
* End gateway portals now work correctly, even if the destination area has already been generated. ({{bug|MCPE-19699}})
* Fixed an issue with end gateway portals which could generate too closely, preventing travel back to the main island. 
* Defeating the ender dragon now drops the correct amount of XP and generates a dragon egg in converted worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-28864}})
* Auto-jump now works when trying to walk through scaffolding. ({{bug|MCPE-38342}})
* Fixed breaking blocks when trying to fire a crossbow on touch screen devices. ({{bug|MCPE-38465}})
* Touch controls now work correctly with scaffolding when using the 'swap jump and sneak' setting. ({{bug|MCPE-38063}})
* Fixed a rare instance of players being teleported into a boat while traveling near water.

'''Items'''
* Fixed a bug that could result in lost items when crafting from the recipe book with a full inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-39621}})
* Vines collected with silk touch tools can be used correctly in banner designs. ({{bug|MCPE-35134}})
* Dropped items are now correctly displaced by slabs and glass. ({{bug|MCPE-12025}})
* Dragon's breath can now be quickly collected reliably in multiplayer games. ({{bug|MCPE-37815}})
* Crossbows no longer fire accidentally when interacting with blocks or mobs on touch screen devices. ({{bug|MCPE-38321}})
* Charged crossbows can now be used to melee attack mobs. ({{bug|MCPE-38314}})

'''Mobs'''
* Cats now spawn in villages generated prior to the 1.8.0 update.
* Shulker boxes now push mobs when opening. ({{bug|MCPE-22480}})
* Pandas now panic when set on fire.
* Slimes will once again spawn in slime chunks as expected. ({{bug|MCPE-38388}})
* Endermen now make the screaming sound when angered. ({{bug|MCPE-26719}})
* Phantoms now drop membranes correctly if killed with a Fire Aspect sword. ({{bug|MCPE-38493}})
* Skeleton jockeys now sit correctly on spiders and skeleton horses. ({{bug|MCPE-40057}})
* Fixed the position of riders on mounts that allow multiple passengers.

'''Blocks'''
* Scaffolding can now be placed on glass. 
* More blocks can be placed on scaffolding including mob heads and flower pots. ({{bug|MCPE-38942}})
* Horizontal flowing water will no longer turn into bubble columns over soul sand.

'''Realms / dedicated server'''
* Operator permissions are now correctly granted as set in the "server.properties" file for dedicated servers. 
* Player permissions are no longer reset when rejoining a dedicated server. 
* Corrected an issue where large Realm downloads could be attempted when there was not enough storage space. 
* Optimized lighting processing on dedicated servers.
* Realms subscriptions can now be successfully purchased on Xbox One.
* Changing Realm game options now take effect after the owner presses the Play button. 

'''Graphical'''
* Held items now show the correct texture when changing resource packs. ({{bug|MCPE-38302}})
* Clocks and compass items now load in correctly when joining a world. ({{bug|MCPE-36952}})
* Fixed texel anti-aliasing so that terrain blocks now have sharper textures.
* Fixed items in hand sometimes appearing completely white. 
* Beacon beams once again use the proper texture. ({{bug|MCPE-38148}})
* Fixed the swimming animation of the "Syrena" skin in the Pirates of the Caribbean Mash-up pack.
* Fixed leg geometry for one-legged characters in various skin packs. 
* Fixed panda feeding animation. 
* Shulkers no longer turn black when attacking a player. 
* Sheep and cats no longer appear black after being spawned with a spawn egg. 
* Tamed llamas no longer become bioluminescent creatures when their inventory is opened. 
* Strays once again have the correct texture layers. ({{bug|MCPE-38155}})
* Lit furnaces now show correctly when copied using {{key|Ctrl}} + pick block. 
* Scaffolding textures no longer z-fight with leaves. ({{bug|MCPE-38375}})
* Particles produced by witches are now purple rather than black. ({{bug|MCPE-30234}})
* The trident throwing animation no longer gets mixed up with the new crossbow animation. ({{bug|MCPE-38358}})

'''User interface'''
* Fixed missing "Save to Microsoft account" message when saving purchases on Nintendo Switch in handheld mode.
* Slabs are no longer labeled "half slabs" in the creative inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-32542}})
* Improved text entry in various fields - text boxes can be highlighted and selected using the keyboard. 
* Updated low disk space error message. 
* Improved the error messages that previously stated the player didn't have a license for the game.
* Error messages are now more informative when trying to join an unavailable world. 
* Fixed the scaling of the Mojang splash screen when resuming a split-screen game. 
* The skin picker menu now only displays progress/loading animation when online. 
* Improved marketplace navigation when using a controller or keyboard.
* Marketplace content will now download correctly without getting stuck in the process. ({{bug|MCPE-37467}})
* Custom modal forms now support two lines again. ({{bug|MCPE-38705}})

'''Commands'''
* Repeating command blocks now keep their 'always active' state when cloned. ({{bug|MCPE-36340}})
* Commands from command blocks no longer extend to other dimensions. (This fix won't affect existing command blocks) ({{bug|MCPE-33892}})
* Special characters now display correctly when using the "{{cmd|say}}" command.
* Falling block entities can now be killed using commands. ({{bug|MCPE-38300}})
* Fixed remaining commands that use relative coordinates that are below y3. ({{bug|MCPE-35130}})

'''Add-ons'''
* Horses will spawn as different variants (rather than just one type) when unspecified in the behavior pack.
* Rideable entities that use the '{{cd|minecraft:explode}}' no component longer crash the game.
* Blocks in the inventory once again follow the textures set in {{cd|blocks.json}}.

== Trivia ==

* This is the only update cycle in the full release of [[Bedrock Edition]] with no further revisions.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|IHo83QnC3mY}}

== See also ==
* [[Java Edition 1.14]]
* [[PlayStation 4 Edition 1.88]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.9.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.9.0]]
[[ru:1.9.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.9.0]]