{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Goat1.16.200.52.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.200.52.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.20052.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.20052.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.200.52<br>
|parent=1.16.200
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 28, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.101
|prev=beta 1.16.200.51
|next=beta 1.16.200.53
|nextparent=1.16.201
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.200.52''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.200]], released on October 28, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url= https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360051234492|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.200.52 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 28, 2020}}</ref> which added some of the first [[Caves & Cliffs]] features behind experimental gameplay toggle, and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Grass Path]]'''
* Renamed to “Dirt Path”
* Can now be made on top or side of [[dirt]], [[coarse dirt]], [[mycelium]], and [[podzol]].
=== Items ===
'''[[Netherite leggings]]'''
* Changed the texture of the worn netherite leggings model.

=== General ===
'''Scripting, Add-Ons, and Technical'''
* Changed {{cd|set_block}} and {{cd|set_block_at_pos}} to use {{cd|BlockDescriptor }} when specifying {{cd|block_type}}
* Items with the item lock component no longer cause the recipe book to show invalid recipe results

'''Blocks '''
* Added {{cd|query.cardinal_facing_2d}} to get a ground plane direction that doesn't return up or down
* Added the ability to put block models into the models/blocks folder
* Added the ability for item triggers to send events to the block they are interacting with (when there is one such as {{cd|on_use_on}})
* Added the ability to query the interacted face for both interactions with blocks and using {{cd|minecraft:on_use_on}} in an item. Face can be queried with {{cd|query.block_face}}

'''Event Responses'''
* {{cd|add_mob_effect}} and {{cd|remove_mob_effect}} no longer throw content errors when valid effect names are passed in
* Added documentation for {{cd|remove_mob_effect}} to make creators aware they can use the value "all" in effect to remove all mob effects from a target

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "[[Caves & Cliffs]]" experimental toggles.

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Powder Snow]]'''
* Currently only available through the creative inventory.
* Entities, including mobs and players, can enter powder snow blocks.
** Their movement is slowed down while inside, and fall damage is ignored.
** Powder snow can be climbed similar to ladders or scaffolding. Downward movement cannot be accelerated.
* Have a slightly different texture than regular snow blocks.
* When the player is inside the block, a powder snow block fog is rendered around them and an overlay texture is rendered on the HUD.
* Currently behind [[Experimental Gameplay]] toggle ([[Caves and Cliffs]] sub-toggle)

=== Items ===
'''[[Goat Horn]]s'''
* Dropped by a goat if it rams into a block.
* When {{ctrl|used}} for a short period of time, it makes a sound identical to the horn heard during [[raid]]s.
* Currently behind [[Experimental Gameplay]] toggle ([[Caves and Cliffs]] sub-toggle)

'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Added [[goat]] spawn [[egg]]s.
** Currently behind [[Experimental Gameplay]] toggle ([[Caves and Cliffs]] sub-toggle)

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Goat]]s'''
* Spawn in the [[Extreme Hills]] biome.
* Take reduced fall damage.
* Will sometimes attempt to ram other mobs, including players.
** The ram target can be up to 16 blocks away, but the ram itself only goes 9 blocks. Goats will attempt to get closer to targets that are too far to be reached.
** Have a cooldown of 10 to 15 seconds between attacks.
** Will not attack goats and shulkers. 
** Ram will be canceled if attacked.
* Drops a horn when they ram into a tree.
* Can be bred with wheat.
** Breeding results in 3 to 8 baby goats.
* Have {{hp|10}} health.
* On death, they do not drop items, but adults will drop experience.
* Can be milked with a bucket, similar to cows.
* Can be attached to a [[lead]].
* Currently behind [[Experimental Gameplay]] toggle ([[Caves and Cliffs]] sub-toggle).

== Fixes ==
'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay
* Large numbers of scheduled instant updates should no longer crash the game ({{bug|MCPE-94942}})
* Fixed occasional crash when going through a portal or flying around
* Fixed a crash that would occasionally occur while flying or moving around the game world

'''General'''
* Only preview items will be shown in crafting screen when auto crafting an item on controller. This prevents rapid updates of the recipe book
* Fixed a bug where End Portal blocks were not removed after an End Portal Frame block is destroyed. Filled blocks other than end portal blocks will remain in place
* Fixed paperdoll such that it can now always be rotated with the mouse when in the dressing room ({{bug|MCPE-101210}})

'''Accessibility'''
* Emote wheel now supports the screen reader
* Fixed a bug where UI screen reader did not read the screen title and shortcut buttons on the Invite to game Screen
* Fixed an issue where the screen reader was not reading updates often enough on some devices
* Fixed the screen reader so messages with controller icons in the Chat Screen are read correctly
* UI Screen Reader now reads the Open Chat Message while Text To Speech For Chat is turned off

'''Gameplay'''
* Double chests no longer lose contents when reloading the world ({{bug|MCPE-102970}})
* Compass is no longer consumed when used on a Lodestone in creative mode ({{bug|MCPE-96258}})
* Cocoa Pods generated in jungle now generate in the proper direction ({{bug|MCPE-102399}}) 
* Signs no longer replace decorations when attempting to place in the same space as the decoration
* Right-clicking a snow block with a shovel no longer breaks the snow block
* Dirt paths (formerly grass path) can now be made by using a shovel on dirt, podzol, mycelium or course dirt (as well as grass)
* Updated the Netherite leggings texture ({{bug|MCPE-103016}})
* Twisting Vines can no longer be placed on Composter blocks while sneaking ({{bug|MCPE-78973}})

'''Mobs'''
* Villagers will no longer steal workstations from each other ({{bug|MCPE-43071}})
* Mobs no longer randomly stop attacking and following their targets ({{bug|MCPE-48144}})
* Piglins that are close together can no longer pick up the same item if it's dropped between them
* Mobs no longer spawn in Wither Roses ({{bug|MCPE-97331}})
* Bees now only exit at the front of Bee Hives and Bee Nests

'''Commands'''
* {{cmd|playsound}} commands now play the sound correctly for all players in range
* {{cmd|effect}} command duration is now capped at 1,000,000 seconds ({{bug|MCPE-92916}})
* Add ticking area commands performed in the same tick now disallow adding areas with the same name twice
* Placeholder text message for the {{cmd|titleraw}} command success no longer returns to player ({{bug|MCPE-63618}})
* {{cd|FadeOut}} argument is no longer ignored in {{cmd|title}}'s times command

'''Graphics, Textures, and User Interface'''
* Update Zombified Piglin texture to remove flickering of loincloth ({{bug|MCPE-96793}})
* "Classic Controls - Intense" font color now matches the surrounding text in VR Controls menu
* [X] button in Chat Settings is no longer present when using a controller
* Profile screen has been improved, now characters will be visible and can be selected or modified as soon as they load
* Fixed a bug where the visual focus indicator was lost when hovering on tabs
* Glowsticks no longer use placeholder textures (Education Feature) ({{bug|MCPE-45686}}, {{bug|MCPE-68417}})
* Loading screen tips won't display the key {{cd|tips.game.62}}
* Avoid purchasing Realm if player cancels out of "Purchase History Needed" dialog

'''Technical '''
* Fixed face occlusion with data driven blocks to properly account for unit cube transparent vs unit cube opaque
* Fixed a crash caused by heap corruption with {{cd|entity_collision}} and {{cd|pick_collision}} components
* Data-driven blocks no longer have their top faces rotated 180 degrees when carried or in inventory ({{bug|MCPE-63134}})
* Mobs are no longer teleported back and forth outside solid objects if there is not enough space for multiple entities ({{bug|MCPE-101202}})
* Fixed items not being placeable in additional horse equipment slots. Does not fix all equippable behaviors
* Inventory size on the {{cd|minecraft:inventory}} component has to be increased to match the equippable slots in order for the server to accept the item placement
* The tooltip for item with item lock component will no longer show when game rule showtags is disabled</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.200.52]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.200.52]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.200.52]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.200.52]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.200.52]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.200.52 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.200.52]]