{{Infobox version
|title=v1.13.1
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.13.1.png
|date=November 12, 2019
|server=1.13.1.5
|internal='''Windows 10''': 1.13.105.0
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.13.1.5.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.13.1.5.zip Linux]
|prev=
|prevparent=1.13.0
|next=1.13.2
|nextparent=1.14.0
}}

'''1.13.1''' is a hotfix to {{el|be}} released on November 12, 2019, which fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360036147331|title=Minecraft - 1.13.1 (Bedrock)|date=November 12, 2019}}</ref>

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed several crashes that could occur when joining Realms.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when joining featured servers.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when throwing lingering potions.

'''General'''
* Error message "Failed" displays when attempting to "Create on Realms" while there are expired Realms for the account.

'''Character creator'''
* Elytra is no longer invisible or blocky when using a custom imported skin. ({{bug|MCPE-54439}})
* Players can now apply the founder's cape to custom imported skins. ({{bug|MCPE-53513}})
* Waiting for a skin to load no longer blocks players from getting into a game. ({{bug|MCPE-45038}})
* Players no longer share the same custom skin during multiplayer sessions. ({{bug|MCPE-48207}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed chests sometimes being invisible. ({{bug|MCPE-52790}})
* Going through portals now takes the player to the correct place in the corresponding dimension. ({{bug|MCPE-54519}})
* Tweaked view bobbing movement. ({{bug|MCPE-54645}})

'''User interface'''
* Closed Realms are no longer displayed on the "Create on Realms" screen.
* Fixed incorrect Japanese and Korean characters appearing in the language settings.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.13.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.13.1]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.13.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.13.1]]
[[lzh:基石版一點一三點一]]
[[pl:Bedrock Edition 1.13.1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.13.1]]
[[ru:1.13.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.1]]