{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.03}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.12.0.3.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.12.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>May 1, 2019
|prevparent=1.11.4
|prev=beta 1.12.0.2
|next=beta 1.12.0.4
|nextparent=1.12.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.12.0.3''' is the second beta version released for [[Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]], released on May 1, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360027543692-Minecraft-Beta-1-12-0-3-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.12.0.3 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=May 1, 2019}}</ref> which changes [[splash]] texts and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added new splash texts:<ref>{{tweet|RyFol|1123803127461941248|All the new Splashes added in the 1.12.0.3 Beta update. More than i would have expected. Also. Mum. They spelled it the correct way 😅|2 May 2019}}</ref>
** "All blocks covered!"
** "feedback.minecraft.net"
** "It came from space."
** "Rainbow turtle?"
** "Something funny!"
** "I need more context."
** "Ahhhhhh!"
** "Don't worry, be happy!"
** "Water bottle!"
** "What's the question?"
** "Plant a tree!"
** "Go to the dentist!"
** "What do you expect?"
** "Look mum, I'm in a splash!"

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bamboo]]'''
* Updated the texture brightness slightly, to match {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-42635}})

=== General ===
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* The behavior pack template once again contains the 'spawn_rules' folder.
* Recipe and item JSON files have been added to the behavior pack template.

'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* The "Store" button has been renamed to "Marketplace".

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Removed splashes referencing [[Notch]]:
** "Made by Notch!"
** "The Work of Notch!"
** "110813!"

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading certain marketplace worlds.

'''Performance'''
* Improved performance around villages and villager job sites.
* Fixed a memory leak that occurred with the script engine.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue where consuming the last item in a stack to unlock an achievement could cause the achievement not to unlock.

'''Gameplay'''
* Player models no longer have flipped arms and legs. ({{bug|MCPE-44718}})
* The "Haggler" achievement once again unlocks when requirements are met.
* Villager trading now properly takes away items from the second slot, when applicable.
* Shields and tridents are no longer invisible when held. ({{bug|MCPE-44647}})
* Players no longer see through the world when clipping into blocks after leaving a boat. ({{bug|MCPE-42593}})

'''Mobs'''
* Tamed tuxedo cats now use the proper texture. ({{bug|MCPE-43527}})
* Stray cats can no longer claim beds in villages for worlds converted from version 1.10. ({{bug|MCPE-44299}})
* Villagers now always spawn as V1 when using template worlds, including Marketplace worlds.
* Witches no longer jump when attacking.
* Fixed some geometry animation issues for various skin packs.
* The ghast spinning model in monster spawners is now the correct size.
* Improved pathing for variable-sized mobs.
* Zombies and vindicators now break doors down faster.
* Fixed wandering trader podzol and coral trades.
* Fletchers now trade 16 arrows instead of 5.
* Changed the cost of butcher's cooked rabbit trade.
* Leatherworker's saddle trade is lowered from 10 to 6 emeralds.
* Armor stands can once again hold armor stand items.

'''Blocks'''
* Flowing lava once again turns into cobblestone when hit by water. ({{bug|MCPE-43990}})
* Frosted ice blocks can now be broken. ({{bug|MCPE-41256}})
* Slabs and other non-solid blocks once again prevent grass from growing on dirt. ({{bug|MCPE-42975}})
* Logs can once again be turned into stripped logs with axes. ({{bug|MCPE-44680}})
* Rails at a T-junction once again change directions when powered by redstone. ({{bug|MCPE-44735}})
* Fixed smokers not having the correct texture underneath. ({{bug|MCPE-43944}})

'''Items'''
* Correct colors of wool are now displayed as a material required to create colored banners in the recipe book.
* Fixed several items not losing durability when used.

'''Graphical'''
* The player's arm is no longer displaced in first-person view after eating food. ({{bug|MCPE-40135}})
* Composter growth particles now appear in the correct location.
* Fixed animated textures for flowing lava and water on several texture packs.
* Fixed gray textures that sometimes appeared on doors and trapdoors.

'''User interface'''
* Attempting to combine stacks of the same item no longer swaps them instead on touch controls.
* Items are no longer lost when swapping to and from the off-hand slot on touch controls. ({{bug|MCPE-44706}})
* The How to Play button on the cartography table now directs to the proper screen.
* Sweet berries no longer disappear on the hotbar when they are highlighted.
* Killing a wandering trader's llama can no longer show their inventory screen.

'''Commands'''
* Removed "tile" prefix in the {{cmd|give}} command. ({{bug|MCPE-44667}})
* Blocks and entities that aren't available in the Creative inventory no longer require the {{code|minecraft}} namespace when used as parameters in slash commands.
* Commands can now be auto-completed on command blocks without leading with a /. ({{bug|MCPE-44679}})

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* {{cd|minecraft:entity_use_item}} documentation now generates correctly.
* Corrected block event descriptions.
* Custom entities now correctly re-evaluate current target validity.
* '{{cd|getBlocks}}' now returns a 3D array of block objects.
* Fixed incorrect component name for entities with the new '{{cd|water_movement}}' component.
* {{cd|getBlock}} and {{cd|getBlocks}} now correctly handle getting a block when given an actor position (or any non-integer position).</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.3]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.3]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.12.0.3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.12.0.3]]
[[ru:Beta 1.12.0.3 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.12.0.3]]