{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.30.21 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.30.22.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.3022.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.3022.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.30.22<br>
|parent=1.17.30
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': August 18, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.11
|prev=beta 1.17.30.21
|next=beta 1.17.30.23
|nextparent=1.17.32
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.30.22''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.30]], released on August 18, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4407359965837|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.30.22 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=August 18, 2021}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Shulker Box]]es'''
* Now when destroyed as an entity, it drops the items it currently has.

=== General ===
'''[[Title Screen|Menu Screen]]'''
* "Profile" button menu to Character Creator has been renamed to "Dressing Room".

=== Technical ===
'''Commands'''
* Animations and events defined in Behavior Packs can now run commands that require cheats without the player enabling cheats (such as setting certain rules with the {{cmd|gamerule}} command).

'''Potions'''
* <code>potion.prefix</code> and <code>potion..''postfix''</code> potion string resources have been renamed to <code>''potion''..name</code>.
* Potion name string resources have been changed so there are separate "Splash" and "Lingering" string resources.
* The old style of using <code>potion.prefix</code> and <code>potion.*.postfix</code> is still supported.

'''User Interface'''
* Content warning message now informs the user of issues with their language file if the format is invalid.

== Fixes ==
'''Cartographers'''
* Cartographers will now only give maps to undiscovered monuments ({{bug|MCPE-29375}}).

'''Enchanting'''
* Enchanting Table's enchantment probability is now weighted ({{bug|MCPE-101588}}).

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Fixed Barrier Block hitbox missing when not holding a Barrier Block ({{bug|MCPE-137646}}).
* Fixed Barrier Blocks not blocking projectiles ({{bug|MCPE-137646}}).
* Fixed Barrier Blocks not blocking player interaction with blocks behind them.
* Shulker Boxes now drop their contents when destroyed as an item ({{bug|MCPE-129470}}, {{bug|MCPE-87877}}).
* Bows and Tridents are now held more similarly to Java Edition ({{bug|MCPE-126717}}, {{bug|MCPE-44418}}).
* Grass and water block tint colors are no longer slightly randomized with noise.
* Abandoned villages are now far rarer, more closely matching the Java Edition ({{bug|MCPE-71769}}).

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed a bug that could cause the Trident, Shield, and Crossbow to render incorrectly when an additional player is connected over the internet using a Marketplace skin ({{bug|MCPE-118358}}).
* Fixed a bug which could cause the Spyglass to appear as if it's being thrown when using a custom skin ({{bug|MCPE-127498}}).
* Fixed emissive light propagation in ray tracing mode by increasing irradiance cache sample size ({{bug|MCPE-135157}}).
* The hotbar is no longer too dark when anti-aliasing is increased ({{bug|MCPE-54213}}).
* The crosshair no longer flickers during multiplayer sessions ({{bug|MCPE-123918}}).

'''Marketplace'''
* Replaced loading bars with new loading spinner in the Marketplace.

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed the hotbar being misaligned with XP bar by 1 pixel ({{bug|MCPE-46975}}).
* Using the touch interface, holding the output slot on the Stonecutter or Loom will now rapidly craft items ({{bug|MCPE-128423}}).
* Fixed an incorrect popup when attempting to activate a pack with a missing dependency ({{bug|MCPE-130978}}).
* Fixed translation issues for some keys containing upper case letters.

=== Experimental Features ===
'''Mobs'''
* Fixed incorrect position when dismounting at a negative world height ({{bug|MCPE-136622}}).</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.30.22]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.30.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.30.22]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.30.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.30.22]]