{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.5.0.0.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android''': April 25, 2018
|parent=1.5.0
|prevparent=1.4.4
|next=beta 1.5.0.1
|nextparent=1.5.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.5.0.0''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.5.0]], released on April 25, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004165031-Minecraft-Beta-1-5-0-0-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.5.0.0 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=April 25, 2018}}</ref> which makes several changes and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchantment]]s'''
* [[Riptide]]
** Added an animation when using Riptide in first person perspective.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Nautilus shell]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental gameplay]].

'''[[Trident]]s'''
* Can now be enchanted with [[Mending]] and [[Unbreaking]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Dolphin]]s'''
* Can now be given [[raw fish]] or [[raw salmon]] and will swim towards the nearest [[underwater ruin]] or [[shipwreck]].

'''[[Drowned]]'''
* Now spawn with a chance of holding a [[nautilus shell]].
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental gameplay]].

'''[[Husk]]s'''
* Husks that have sunk in [[water]] now transform into [[zombie]]s and zombies will transform into [[drowned]].

'''[[Skeleton horse]]s'''
* Can now be ridden underwater.

'''[[Skeleton]]s and [[stray]]s '''
* Now switch from ranged to melee attacks while underwater and switch back when out of water.

'''[[Undead]] mobs'''
* Now sink in water and can walk on the bottom.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Boat]]s'''
* Changed the steering when using keyboard and mouse by pressing W to move forward and S to reverse.

'''[[Enchantments]]'''
* [[Riptide]]
** Updated the spin texture.

'''[[Swimming]]'''
* Improved the [[player]]'s swimming at the surface of water.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several of the top crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when playing Truffletop Town and dying while using elytra and fireworks.
* Pick Block will now work in Survival mode.
* Players can once again resurface after tapping "fly down" arrow while swimming with touch controls.
* Breaking coral with a pickaxe will now drop dead coral and will drop living coral when using Silk Touch.
* Fixed dolphins getting stuck in their idle animation.
* Firework rockets now appear in the recipe book when being searched for in Survival.
* Fixed fish not rendering when moving out of render distance and back.
* {{cmd|clear}} will now clear items properly.
* The first mouse click after re-mapping an action to a key is now recognized.
* Improved messaging when there are no old worlds to sync.
* Leads and balloons can no longer be attached to horses being ridden by players.
* Enchantment names can now be seen on the enchantment table screen with Pocket UI when using keyboard and mouse.
* Fixed helmets being visible after being destroyed by taking damage from a mob.
* Resource and behavior packs are now properly enabled/disabled on Realms when restoring backups or replacing worlds.
* Changes made to the 'Trust Player Permissions' setting during world creation will now persist after loading into the world.
* Fixed some visual issues with kelp.
* Ladders no longer appear as invisible blocks with collision when placed using '{{cmd|setblock}}'.
* The surface of water can now be seen when viewing from behind glass underwater.
* Sneaking and jumping into water no longer prevents jumping or swimming upwards.
* Double doors once again display correctly.
* Fixed the texture of dark prismarine Stairs.
* Banners are no longer consumed from the inventory when placed in Creative mode.
* Pick Block will now pick the proper variant of buttons and pressure plates.
* Glass once again renders properly at further distances and certain angles.
* Zombie villagers created during world generation are no longer super fast.
* It's once again possible to eat raw fish.
* It is no longer possible to refill breath by swimming against ice.
* Fixed a redundant gray line at the top of the drowned's legs.
* The trident will now be thrown the direction the cursor is pointing when playing in VR.
* Pressing the 'Default Settings' button will now only affect the control scheme that is selected.
* Personal game mode is now fully applied in Game Settings when switched from Survival to Creative.
* The ender dragon will no longer get stuck if the player moves too far away.
* Bone meal is now depleted when used on Kelp from a dispenser.
* Dropped items can once again pass under top slabs.
* Image thumbnails and game modes for worlds and world templates will now appear when searching on the Storage screen.
* The book on the enchantment table screen no longer overlaps the suggested enchantment's name.
* Tall birch trees will once again generate in mutated birch forests.
* Mobs will no longer rotate their heads 360 degrees while in boats.
* Fixed water not rendering when viewed at certain angles near the surface.
* Splash water bottles will now keep dolphins hydrated on land.
* A controller tooltip will now appear when it is possible to place blocks underwater.
* All overhangs and floating islands will once again generate with grass or snow under them.
* Bryce mesa biomes will now generate correctly.
* Fixed entering a minecart from another minecart.
* Players will no longer spawn on land in the swimming animation after swimming near land and exiting a world.
* Blocks can no longer be placed with no other block to support it when sprint-flying underwater in Creative mode.
* Riptide can no longer be used while riding a mount.
* Icebergs, seagrass, and kelp can no longer replace blocks of an ocean monument when generated.
* Fixed the glint on enchanted tridents in first person.
* Fixed the rotation of tridents while charging in first person.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.5.0.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.5.0.0]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.5 build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.5.0.0]]
[[ru:Beta 1.5.0.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.5.0.0]]