{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.60.25 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.60.25.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| versioncode='''Android''':<br>
951906025 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961906025 (x86, 31)<br>
971906025 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981906025 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - January 5, 2023
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.6025.0<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.6025.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.60.25
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.60.25.zip Windows]
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.60.25.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.60
| prevparent = 1.19.51
| prev = Preview 1.19.60.24
| next = Preview 1.19.60.26
| nextparent = 1.19.62
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.60.25''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.60.25''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fifth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.60]], released on January 5, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/11995250732557|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.60.25|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=January 5, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs. This is the first beta/''Preview'' released in 2023.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Button]]s'''
* Added a unique button click sound.

'''[[Crimson]] and [[Warped]] blocks'''
* Now have a unique set of sounds.

'''[[Door]]s, [[Fence Gate]]s and [[Trapdoor]]s'''
* Now use the same opening and closing sounds as ''Java Edition''.

'''[[Pressure Plate]]s'''
* Now have different sound pitches based on their behavior to match ''Java Edition''.

=== Items ===
'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Wither and Ender Dragon spawn eggs are no longer available in the Creative Inventory, but are still obtainable via commands.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Donkey]], [[Mule]], [[Skeleton Horse]], and [[Zombie Horse]]'''
* Changed their textures.

'''[[Piglin]]s'''
* Can once again spawn at light levels above 7 in the Nether.

=== Technical ===
'''General'''
* Added content error for the condition that Custom blocks with permutations or properties fail to load in non-experimental worlds for JSON formats 1.19.60 and onward.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Head]]s'''
* Mob heads can now be placed on top of note blocks without sneaking.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Camel]]s'''
* No longer get pulled into rideable entities (i.e boats and minecarts).

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Entity
** Fixed a bug where the <code>getEffect</code> method could return an invalid Effect (and another case where an Effect could become invalid after a new Effect was added).
* EntityHurtEvent
** Added read-only property <code>damageSource: EntityDamageSource</code> - Gets information about the damage source.
* EntityDamageSource
** Added property <code>cause: EntityDamageCause</code> - Gets the damage cause.
** Added property <code>damagingEntity?: Entity</code> - Gets the damaging Entity.
** Added property <code>damagingProjectile?: Entity</code> - Gets the damaging projectile Entity.
** Added function <code>applyDamage(amount: number, source?: EntityDamageSource): boolean</code> - Applies damage to the Entity and returns the result of the operation.
* Dimension
** Added function <code>fillBlocks(begin: BlockLocation, end: BlockLocation, block: BlockPermutation | BlockType, options?: BlockFillOptions): number</code>
*** Fills an area between begin and end with block of type block. Returns number of blocks placed.
** Added new interface <code>BlockFillOptions</code> with member <code>matchingBlock?: BlockPermutation | BlockType</code>.
*** Used with <code>fillBlocks</code> to apply additional options, such as only filling blocks matching <code>matchingBlock</code>.
* Player
** Added function <code>addLevels(amount: number): number</code> - Adds/Removes level to/from the Player and returns the current level of the Player.
** Added function <code>addExperience(amount: number): number</code> - Adds/Removes experience to/from the Player and returns the current experience of the Player.
** Added function <code>resetLevel(): void</code> - Resets the level of the Player.
** Added function <code>getTotalXp(): number</code> - Gets the total experience of the Player.
** Added read-only property <code>level</code> - Gets the level of the Player.
** Added read-only property <code>xpEarnedAtCurrentLevel</code> - Gets the experience earned at the current level of the Player.
** Added read-only property <code>totalXpNeededForNextLevel</code> - Gets the total experience required for the current level of the Player.
'''Recipes'''
* Renamed and converted all Smithing Table recipes to use the newly introduced “minecraft:recipe_smithing_transform” recipe format.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Camels no longer get pulled into rideable entities ({{bug|MCPE-163610}}).

'''Touch Controls'''
* Correct dismount tip now shows if not using classic touch controls.

'''Blocks'''
* Crimson and Warped block sets now have a unique set of sounds.

'''Commands'''
* Fixed potential crash when teleporting players to other dimensions using commands ({{bug|MCPE-164940}}).

'''Commands Parity'''
* Running {{cmd|execute <if{{!}}unless> score}} on a player that doesn’t have a score set now returns false ({{bug|MCPE-156279}}).
* {{cmd|execute <if{{!}}unless> score}} no longer accepts selectors that can return multiple entities (ie. @e, @a).

'''General'''
* Redstone Dust now emits a sound when placed on the ground ({{bug|MCPE-65423}}).
* Player now responds correctly to speed changes using minecraft:movement

'''Input'''
* Fixed a bug where the mouse cursor was visible and is no longer usable to control the player camera on the HUD screen after exiting the menu screen with a touch while moving the mouse around.

'''Mobs'''
* Players can now “pick” Iron Golems, Snow Golems, Withers, and Ender Dragons, obtaining their respective Spawn Eggs ({{bug|MCPE-164533}}).
* Piglins can once again spawn at light levels above 7 in the Nether ({{bug|MCPE-165096}}).

'''Evoker'''
* Evokers now play a ‘sit’ animation when riding a mount or vehicle ({{bug|MCPE-43778}}).

'''Particle Effects'''
* Updated particles documentation with descriptions of new materials and included example particles in the example resource pack.

'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed potential crash when using “instant_despawn” component.
* Fixed potential crash when loading actors.

'''Stability and Performance'''
* ClientSide LevelChunk generation is now Server authoritative, preventing Clients from generating unnecessary chunks.

'''Touch Controls'''
* Resolved an issue that pressing the inventory button could interact with the world instead of opening the inventory on some devices ({{bug|MCPE-154499}}).
* Fixed an issue that players couldn’t scroll pages when one row was off-screen ({{bug|MC-859959}}, {{bug|MC-926422}}).
* Added several levels of intervals for repeat crafting when holding on the crafted items.
* Removed the camera movement delay when the player swiped from the attack and build buttons in crosshair mode.
* The touch focus circle has been reactivated with the new touch controls (not in Crosshair mode).

'''User Interface'''
* Toast notifications can now be swiped away on touch devices in-game.
* Touch control settings section is no longer visible on Xbox.

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Change various blocks’ map colors to match ''Java Edition'' ({{bug|MCPE-19228}}).
* Change frogspawn map color to match ''Java Edition'' ({{bug|MCPE-159715}}).
* Change bed block map colors to match ''Java Edition'' ({{bug|MCPE-40709}}).

'''Blocks'''
* Wooden Doors, Iron Doors, Wooden Trapdoors, Iron Trapdoors and Fence Gates now use the same opening and closing sounds as ''Java Edition''.
* Updated Pressure Plates to have different sound pitches based on their behavior to match ''Java Edition''.
* Added a unique button click sound for Wooden Buttons to match ''Java Edition''.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.60 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.60.25]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.60.25]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.60.25]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.60.25]]