{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Axolotl 1.16.230.52.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.230.52.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.23052.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.23052.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.230.52<br>
|parent=1.17.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' March 31, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.221
|prev=beta 1.16.230.50
|next=beta 1.16.230.54
|nextparent=1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.230.52''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.16.230 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0|1.17.0]].<ref>{{tweet|CornerHardMC|1397616108056707072|Correct, no 1.16.230|May 26, 2021}}</ref>}} released on March 31, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360059243391|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.230.52 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 31, 2021}}</ref> which adds [[axolotl]] and [[Deepslate (disambiguation)|deepslate]] variants behind [[Experimental Gameplay|experimental]] toggle, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Deepslate]]'''
* Currently only generated in blobs below y=16.
* Has a hardness value greater than that of [[stone]] but can be mined with any [[pickaxe]].
* Drops [[cobbled deepslate]] when mined.
* Can be obtained only with a [[Silk Touch]] pickaxe.
* There are 19 variants in total.

'''[[Cobbled Deepslate]]'''
* Drops from [[deepslate]] when mined with a pickaxe without [[Silk Touch]].
* Can't be used interchangeably with [[cobblestone]] and [[blackstone]] in crafting recipes of basic tools, furnaces and brewing stands.<ref>{{Bug|MCPE-123669}}</ref>
* Can be crafted into respective stairs, slabs and walls, [[polished deepslate]], [[chiseled deepslate]], [[deepslate bricks]] and [[deepslate tiles]], which can be used to craft their respective stairs, slabs, and walls (excluding chiseled deepslate).
** Deepslate bricks and deepslate tiles can also be smelted onto their cracked variants.
* Can now be smelted back into deepslate.

'''[[Deepslate ore]]s'''
* Added deepslate variants of all ores, including iron, gold, copper, coal, diamond, redstone, emerald, and lapis lazuli.
** Deepslate ore variants for [[Copper Ore|copper]], [[Emerald Ore|emerald]], and [[Coal Ore|coal ore]] do not generate by default.
* Takes twice as long to mine as normal ores.
* Has the texture of [[deepslate]] replacing the normal stone texture.
* Takes place of ores that generate in deepslate.
* Can be used in blasting and smelting recipes like normal ores.

'''[[Oxidized Copper]] and [[Oxidized Cut Copper]]'''
* Can now be waxed.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Axolotl]]'''
* Axolotls will spawn underground, in water.
* Holding a bucket of tropical fish will cause nearby axolotls to follow the player on both land and water.
** Axolotls cannot be tamed but they can be bred by feeding them buckets of tropical fish.
* Axolotls will attack fish, squid, drowned, and guardians.
* Axolotls come in a variety of colors, all with an equal chance of spawning except for blue.
** Blue axolotls have a small chance of spawning as a mutation when breeding 2 axolotls.
* Axolotls can survive on dry land for a few minutes. After that they will start to dry out and take continuous damage until rehydrated.
* When taking damage, there is a chance that the axolotl will play dead. While playing dead, the axolotl will regenerate health and mobs will be unable to target the axolotl.
* When a player kills a mob that the axolotl was attacking, they are rewarded with the regeneration effect, and their mining fatigue is removed if they have it.
* Axolotls can be picked up with buckets, like fish.

== Changes ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[Cave]]s'''
* Deepslate is generated in blobs below y = 16.

'''[[Ore]]s'''
* Ore is generated as normal, when the ore is generated where Deepslate has been generated, [[deepslate ore]] is generated instead.

=== Technical ===
'''GameTest Framework'''
* GameTest
** <code>function assertEntityData(position : BlockLocation, entityIdentifier : string, callback : function(entity: Entity))</code>
*** Asserts that the given condition is true for all entities of the given type at the given location
** <code>function spawnItem(itemType : ItemStack, position : Location)</code> 
*** Spawns an item at the given location
** <code>function assertIsWaterlogged(position : BlockLocation, isWaterlogged : bool)</code>
*** Asserts that the block at the given location is waterlogged
** <code>function assertRedstonePower(position : BlockLocation, power : number)</code> 
*** Asserts the redstone power level at the given location
** Added Commands.run
* New Effect APIs on the Entity Type
** <code>function getAmplifier()</code> 
*** Gets the effect's amplifier level
** <code>function getDuration()</code>
*** Gets the effect's remaining duration
** <code>function addEffect(effectType : EffectType, duration : number, amplifier: number)</code>
*** Adds an effect to the entity
** <code>function getEffect(effectType : EffectType)</code>
*** Gets an effect from the entity
* Updated constructor to ItemStack
* Updated ItemType
** <code>constructor (x : number, y: number, z: number)</code> 
*** World coordinates
** <code>function getName()</code> 
*** Gets the item's name
* Add new enumerations: <code>Minecraft.Effects</code> & <code>Minecraft.Items</code>

== Fixes ==
'''General'''
* Improved underwater visibility in all sorts of water, water-filled caverns in particular.
* Oxidized copper block variants can now be waxed
* Tweaked which blocks can be placed on pointed dripstone, to match {{JE}} ({{bug|MCPE-116098}}, {{bug|MCPE-116056}}, {{bug|MCPE-116050}})
* Pointed dripstone now correctly breaks when pushed by piston ({{bug|MCPE-116095}})
* Dripstone and pointed dripstone now have correct sounds when walking/jumping on them ({{bug|MCPE-119694}})
* Glow lichen is now under the nature category of the Creative inventory ({{bug|MCPE-122600}})
* Lightning rods now correctly activate observers when struck by lightning
* Big dripleaf can now be waterlogged
* Big dripleaf now untilts correctly after getting hit by a projectile ({{bug|MCPE-121666}})
* Small dripleaf can now also be placed on dirt, farmland, grass, moss blocks, and podzol as long as its stem is underwater
* Moss block now blocks water ({{bug|MCPE-121796}})
* Ladder, vines, twisting vines, weeping vines, sweet berry bush, Nether sprouts, and fire can now be placed on moss blocks ({{bug|MCPE-121828}})
* Spore blossoms correctly drop themselves when broken with shears ({{bug|MCPE-122054}})
* Mobs can now pathfind across moss blocks ({{bug|MCPE-121967}})
* Lush caves can now contain classic "jungle" vines
* Fixed a bug where the screen reader did not read the focused button on some screens
* Fixed a bug where English screen reader pronounced "A button" as "a button", now saying "Button A" instead
* Tridents in players' and mobs' hands are now correctly positioned in all perspective modes ({{bug|MCPE-116681}})
* Trident raising animation modified for first person to more closely match the previous version
* Water buckets can now be used to pick up fish ({{bug|MCPE-94520}})

'''Mobs'''
* Rabbits can now raid carrot crops ({{bug|MCPE-113321}})
* Animals can no longer be fed infinitely until they are bred ({{bug|MCPE-19309}})</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==

<references group="fn"/>

== References ==

{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.52]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.52]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.230.52]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.52]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.52]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.230.52]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.230.52 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.230.52]]