{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.30.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.30.22.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.3022.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.3022.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.30.22
| date = '''Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - August 17, 2022<br>'''Android''' - August 18, 2022
| parent = 1.19.30
| prevparent = 1.19.22
| prev = Preview 1.19.30.21
| next = Preview 1.19.30.23
| nextparent = 1.19.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.30.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.30.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.30]], released on August 17/18, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/8485757633293|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.30.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 17, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Music]]'''
* Music is now included on Android and Fire devices and no longer needs to be downloaded from the marketplace.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features",  "GameTest Framework", and "Molang Features" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''Commands'''
* The {{cmd|execute at}} command now properly executes filters from the specified 'at' position. ({{bug|MCPE-156283}})
'''Gametest Framework'''
* Script Command
** Added new sub-command {{cmd|script watchdog exportstats|link=none}} - Exports a file containing memory usage and object handle statics.
'''Molang'''
* Clarified the documentation for {{cd|equipment_count}} to indicate it only counts equipped armor, and how to query for held items. ({{bug|MCPE-136134}})
'''Touch Controls'''
* Can now hotbar slots while targeting a block while in a boat. ({{bug|MCPE-156814}})
'''Data-Driven Block Components'''
* Enables creators to add geometry up to 0.875 units outside of the regular block unit cube on any one side.

== Fixes ==
'''Spectator Mode (Experimental)'''
* Players in Spectator Mode are no longer affected by the powder snow fog effect. ({{bug|MCPE-156683}})
* Any leashed animals will not follow spectators anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-157065}})
* Players in Spectator Mode no longer emit particles while sprinting. ({{bug|MCPE-160397}})
* Spectators players with status effect applied no longer emit particles. ({{bug|MCPE-160398}})
'''Chest Boats'''
* Fixed an issue where boats with chests would not drop the chest's contents when destroyed by the {{cmd|kill}} command. ({{bug|MCPE-160186}})
'''Items'''
* Eating a stew will now leave the empty bowl in the slot it was eaten from. ({{bug|MCPE-56367}})
* Drinking a potion will now leave the empty glass bottle in the slot you drank it from rather than your first empty inventory slot. ({{bug|MCPE-26436}})
'''Mobs '''
* Drowned no longer spawn in warm ocean biomes.
'''Blocks'''
* Oak and mangrove fence gates are now flammable. ({{bug|MCPE-160098}})
'''Gameplay'''
* Disallow fireballs from travelling through portals to prevent an issue where they could become permanently stuck. ({{bug|MCPE-160938}})
* Fixed dropped items getting stuck at the edge of flowing water. ({{bug|MCPE-157167}})
* Coral fans now look identical when placed facing north, west, east, and south. ({{bug|MCPE-125311}})
'''Graphical'''
* Fixed an issue where certain water textures with waterlogged blocks displayed the wrong texture. ({{bug|MCPE-156281}})
* Sky in the End dimension will no longer look like static upon entry while it is raining in the Overworld. ({{bug|MCPE-148843}})
'''Items'''
* Fixed a bug where some custom items (from Creators Features packs), after being used, were duplicated upon player's death. ({{bug|MCPE-128897}})
* Fixed a regression where an undamaged tool, such as a pickaxe, when name changed on an anvil, would fail to work correctly when used for the first time. ({{bug|MCPE-152637}})
* Fixed a bug where some blocks that require a supporting block (for example carpet or crops) did not appear on maps when placed on a non-full block or above an air block. ({{bug|MCPE-159713}})
'''Marketplace'''
* Most common Marketplace connection issues will now automatically resolve themselves when conditions improve without needing to restart ''Minecraft''. ({{bug|MCPE-155025}})
* Text To Speech no longer ignores the volume setting on startup.
'''Mobs '''
* Allays and bees should no longer get stuck on Lanterns or other low hanging objects. ({{bug|MCPE-155777}})
'''Music'''
* Music is now included in the mobile app and no longer has to be downloaded from Marketplace.
'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed performance issues when striders are being ridden by baby striders. ({{bug|MCPE-146478}})
'''User Interface'''
* The arrow within the crafting Pocket UI now fits appropriately without any clipping issues.
'''Commands'''
* Fixed a bug where a "{{cd|%}}" was prepended to player names in the chat output of {{cmd|scoreboard players reset}}. ({{bug|MCPE-151389}})
* Attempting to kill a player in Creative Mode using the {{cmd|kill}} command now displays a message informing the player that in cannot be done. ({{bug|MCPE-16732}})
'''Actors'''
* Non-parrot mobs on a player's shoulder will now adjust their position when the player crouches. ({{bug|MCPE-153996}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.30.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.30.22]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.30.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.30.22]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.30.22]]