{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.100.59.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.10059.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.10059.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.100.59<br>
|build=4805531
|parent=1.16.100
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' October 8, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.61
|prev=beta 1.16.100.58
|next=beta 1.16.100.60
|nextparent=1.16.101
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.100.59''' is the tenth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.100]], released on October 8, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url= https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360050305112|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.100.59 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 8, 2020}}</ref> which adds a new command, re-adds RenderDragon, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|schedule}}'''
* Used to set an action on a certain schedule.
* Works differently than ''Java Edition'' counterparts.

== Changes ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|camerashake}}'''
* Added the ability to pick between different shake types

=== General ===
'''[[RenderDragon]]'''
* Re-enabled in the beta.

'''Technical'''
* Add Block
** Add Block content is not allowed to use Vanilla Block identifiers to avoid content collisions
** {{cd|SetBlockAtPos}} does not modify the block position from incoming parameters

* [[item_components|Components]]
** Added a Lock in Inventory ({{code|minecraft:lock_in_inventory}}) component that can be applied to an item via the {{cmd|give}} and {{cmd|replaceitem}} commands. This prevents the item from being removed from the player's inventory, dropped, or crafted with.
** Added a Lock in Slot ({{cd|minecraft:lock_in_slot}}) component that can be applied to an item via the {{cmd|give}} and {{cmd|replaceitem}} commands. This prevents the item from being moved or removed from its slot in the player's inventory, dropped, or crafted with.
** Added a Keep on Death ({{cd|minecraft:keep_on_death}}) component which can be applied to an item via the {{cmd|give}} and {{cmd|replaceitem}} commands. This component prevents the item from being dropped when the player dies.

* Item Icon Component
** Items now have an easy way to set the icon for an item for displaying in the user interface
** Component Variables
*** {{cd|texture}}: Full path to icon image to use as item's icon. No default
*** {{cd|frame}}: Molang script to be executed at runtime to determine the icon's current frame. Can be a constant, defaults to: 0
*** {{cd|legacy_texture_id}}: The name of the texture used on legacy items. No default
*** {{cd|legacy_frame}}: Molang script to be executed at runtime to determine the icon's current frame. Can be a constant, defaults to: 0

* Data Driven Blocks
** Added the BlockDisplayNameComponent to allow display names to be configured in the localization table
** Made {{cd|entity_collision}} and {{cd|pick_collision}} take into account the rotation on a block
** Added support for the {{cd|on_interact}} trigger component
** Improved support for {{cd|on_interact}} modifying the item used, e.g. change durability or set into another item

== Fixes ==
'''Performance and Stability'''
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay
* Fixed a crash that could occasionally occur while flying or moving around the game world

'''Blocks'''
* Signs can no longer be placed on end rods
* Blocks that can only be obtained with commands no longer have a placeholder tooltip ({{bug|MCPE-100760}})
* Fixed Crimson Roots, Warped Roots and Nether Sprouts not generating in the Nether ({{bug|MCPE-100614}})
* Walls converted from Console Edition saves are now joined properly

'''Items'''
* Item lock icon and tooltip no longer appear when the Show Tags game rule is false
* Fixed an issue that was causing some item recipes to be missing from the crafting window ({{bug|MCPE-100257}})
* Armor no longer gets stuck in the hot bar after interacting with an armor stand ({{bug|MCPE-84368}})
* Added Book & Quill back to the Creative item inventory ({{bug|MCPE-100361}})

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed the 'Profile' button in the Pause Menu not being sized correctly.

'''Technical'''
* Fixed an issue where custom items were not added to the Creative item inventory and therefore could not be used with commands
* Fixed a bug where a request queued with {{cmd|schedule}} would not clear out when executed and would execute when re-entering a level
* Fixed issues with the {{cmd|schedule}} command that would consider an area loaded before it was actually loaded, and the command now respects which dimension it is queued in
* Fixed issue with Blocks sync
* Fixed animations not running on mobs spawned with custom events
* Fixed issue where {{cd|on_interact}} would duplicate the item used if an event response killed the player
* Fixed custom items functioning or rendering correctly on the client in a client/server scenario</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* Beta 1.16.100.59 has the same [[protocol version]] as [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.30.56|beta 1.16.30.56]], which means these versions are cross-compatible with each other.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.59]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.59]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.100.59]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.59]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.100.59]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.100.59 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.100.59]]