{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.06}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.12.0.6.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.12.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>May 22, 2019
|prevparent=1.11.4
|prev=beta 1.12.0.4
|next=beta 1.12.0.9
|nextparent=1.12.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.12.0.6''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.12.0]], released on May 22, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360028058852-Minecraft-Beta-1-12-0-6-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.12.0.6 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=May 22, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Removed the "byte order mark" at the beginning of function files if it exists.
* Updated ScriptHotbarContainerComponent's generateDocumentation function to say it checks the player's first hotbar item slot, not their third.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur when the game was checking for previously downloaded content. 
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when exiting the game on Windows 10. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading the game.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when throwing an egg or snowball. ({{bug|MCPE-40435}}) 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when flaming arrow entities were being loaded in.
* Fixed a global resources crash on Android.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trading with a villager.

'''Performance'''
* Made further improvements to performance around new villages.
* Reduced the amount of memory required to load textures.
* Fixed a bug that would cause a performance drop when mobs produced splashing particles when entering water.
* Improved block occlusion performance.
* Improved performance related to chunk loading.

'''General'''
* Custom skins are now applied correctly without needing to restart the game to see them. ({{bug|MCPE-37926}})
* Made item names more consistent by removing 'tile' from the beginning of some of them.
* The "Invite to Game" button is no longer enabled on third-party servers.
* Made improvements to roaming skins, which should apply correctly after reloading or reinstalling the game and signing in.
* Custom skins no longer keep revert to an earlier cross-platform skin after reloading the game. ({{bug|MCPE-45476}})

'''Gameplay'''
* The "Iron Belly" achievement can be unlocked once again. ({{bug|MCPE-46260}})
* Acacia planks can be crafted correctly once again. ({{bug|MCPE-44398}})
* Village job site blocks now have consistent sound volume levels when used by players. 
* Players now consistently receive items when completing a trade with a villager and using a controller. 
* The player paper doll model now moves correctly when the player is gliding with elytra. ({{bug|MCPE-44731}})
* Using pick-block on sweet berry bushes now gives the player the correct item. ({{bug|MCPE-41877}})
* Fireworks now correctly boost elytra flight if provided through {{cmd|give}} or {{cmd|setitem}}.
* Bone meal is now consumed correctly when used on grass.
* Paintings can now be crafted from dyed wool.
* Players no longer lose villager job site locations if they replace a job site block that is tied to an experienced villager.
* Players can no longer lose or duplicate banner patterns when switching them in a loom with a full inventory.
* Cactus blocks of different growth stages can be smelted into green dye again. ({{bug|MCPE-42497}})
* Fixed an issue with missing button icons in the How to Play section on Switch.
* Pressing controller Y on the cartography output slot now only crafts the correct amount.
* Re-established a fix to keep legacy trades working the way they used to.
* Llamas now drop their leads if their wandering trader is killed. ({{bug|MCPE-44704}})

'''Mobs'''
* Cats and villagers now have the correct head position when sitting and sleeping. ({{bug|MCPE-44648}})
* Tamed cats no longer slide around while sitting. ({{bug|MCPE-44491}})
* Armor stands now render off-hand items correctly.
* Villagers without professions now follow regular schedules.
* Parrot legs are now aligned correctly when flying.
* Fixed creeper model in some Marketplace maps.

'''Graphical'''
* Updated illager captain banner texture.
* Fire particles no longer display on empty mob spawner blocks.
* Tweaked arrow rendering timing to improve VR experience.
* Fixed a small error in the bell texture UV.

'''Commands'''
* Killing a rideable entity no longer respawns its rider when killed in the same tick. 
* The {{cmd|testforblock}} command now works reliably with items renamed in the language files.

'''Add-ons and scripting engine'''
* Custom underwater mobs can now spawn naturally.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.6]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.12.0.6]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.12.0.6]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.12.0.6]]
[[ru:Beta 1.12.0.6 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.12.0.6]]