{{Infobox version
| edition = Bedrock
| image = Bedrock 1.14.0.50.jpg
| type = Beta
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.14.50.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.50.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.0.50<br>
| parent = 1.14.1
| date = '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' November 13, 2019
| prevparent = 1.14.0.12
| next = beta 1.14.0.51
| nextparent = 1.14.20
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.0.50''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.1]], released on November 13, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360035860332|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.0.50 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=November 13, 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox One whilst trying to sign out of Xbox Live.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when switching between Minecraft and the Minecraft Club page, on Xbox One.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading in the character creator.

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue that could sometimes cause split-screen to see a flickering screen when joining a world on Xbox One.
* Downloading the free Minecraft Music Pack no longer shows an error message in the Marketplace.
* The loading screen tips now load in correctly when using the Japanese language option.

'''Character creator'''
* Equipping a skin from the Marketplace now updates the player model correctly when navigating back through the character creator.
* Adding or removing the founder's cape from the player using the in-game character creator now updates the player's skin in-game, without needing to restart.
* Fixed an issue that could prevent capes from being added when re-entering the character creator.
* Skins that don't roam to ''Minecraft Earth'' no longer display "Usable Everywhere" in the character creator.
* Optimized the size of character creator skins, to improve performance when playing on a server.

'''Gameplay'''
* Buckets can once again be used to milk cows. ({{bug|MCPE-54623}})
* Milk buckets can again be used to craft cakes. ({{bug|MCPE-52774}})
* Milk buckets no longer play the drinking animation continuously, when the "use" button is held down. ({{bug|MCPE-54555}})
* Fixed an issue that was causing sugar cane to break when a nearby water source became waterlogged. ({{bug|MCPE-52314}})

'''Mobs'''
* Leashed bees can no longer sting the player twice. ({{bug|MCPE-55068}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.50]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.50]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.0.50]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.50]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.0.50]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.0.50 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.50]]