{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.100.56.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.10056.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.10056.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.100.56<br>
|build=4703484
|parent=1.16.100
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' September 17, 2020
|prevparent=1.16.61
|prev=beta 1.16.100.55
|next=beta 1.16.100.57
|nextparent=1.16.101
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.100.56''' is the seventh beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.100]], released on September 17, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360049825031|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.100.56 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 17, 2020}}</ref> which makes technical changes, and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Add-on]]s and script engine'''
* Added {{cd|minecraft:placement_filter}} component which allows the player to set conditions for where the block can be placed.
* Added serialization to Block Descriptor.
* Added static {{cd|anyMatch}} functions to BlockDescriptor to compare a list of BlockDescriptors against: {{cd|Block*}}, {{cd|BlockLegacy}}, or {{cd|BlockDescriptor}}.
* Added a function to compare two BlockDescriptors.
* Changed the BlockDescriptor BlockLegacy member variable to a Block*, to set the block states during deferred block resolution and get the block with the states set.
* Removed all the existing Block* json parsing.
* Added unit tests to verify parsing and serializing block descriptors.
* Added unit tests to verify comparing a BlockDescriptors against each other.
* Added unit tests to verify getting a block from BlockDescriptor with the states set.

'''[[Experimental Gameplay]]'''
* Added "Experimental Add-On Features" toggle.

'''Technical'''
* {{cd|DataDrivenBlockEvents}}
** Adds support for parsing and performing the following event responses: 
*** Added the {{cd|set_block_at_pos}} event response.
*** Spawn Loot.
*** Set Block.
** Added support for the {{cd|on_interact trigger}} component.
*** Added support for the {{cd|on_player_placing}} trigger component.
*** Also added MoLang queries for {{cd|cardinal_block_face_placed_on}} and {{cd|cardinal_player_facing}} for getting placement context.

* {{cd|DataDrivenBlockModels}}
** Added the first pass of the new data driven block tessellation pipelin.
** Added the {{cd|minecraft:geometry}} component to allow using a block model for rendering.
** Added the {{cd|minecraft:unit_cube}} component to allow using a default unit cube for rendering. Unit cubes get some extra effects like ambient occlusion and face removal.
** Added the {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} component to allow mapping faces and {{cd|material_instances}} in a geometry file to an actual material.

* {{cd|DataDrivenBlockModels}} - {{cd|SmoothLighting}}
** Fixed smooth lighting and ambient occlusion with new data driven blocks.

* {{cd|ExecuteCommand}}
** Added support to item json events for the {{cd|execute_command}} keyword. 

* Items
** Created {{cd|RepairableItemComponent}} that data-drives how an item is repaired in game.
** Renamed and split item ID to be in parity with the [[Java Edition data value#Items|Java item IDs]].
** Added new {{cd|BlockRaycastComponent}} that can override the AABB used for outlines and raycasting.
** Added new {{cd|BlockCollisionComponent}} that can override the AABB used for entity collision.
** Added new {{cd|BlockPropertyComponent}} that can replace the blockProperties : {{cd|Unwalkable}}, {{cd|Infiniburn}}, {{cd|PreventsJumping}}, {{cd|Immovable}}, {{cd|BreakOnPush}}, {{cd|OnlyPistonPush}} and {{cd|BreaksWhenHitByArrow}}.
** Added new {{cd|BlockQueuedTickingComponent}} that triggers events for a block on a range of time set by the creator.
** Added new {{cd|BlockRandomTickingComponent}} that triggers events for a block randomly.
** Added a Rotation Component that allows a block to rotate The component only allows axis-aligned rotations.
** Adds the base implementation of the {{cd|CraftingTableComponent}}.
*** Allows the creation of custom [[crafting table]]s.
*** Currently only supports 3x3 grids.

* Records
** Items can now be made records to play music in [[jukebox]]es. Their component variables:
*** {{cd|sound_event}} A string value corresponding to a sound event in the game code. This string must be one these for music to play: "13", "cat", "blocks", "chirp", "far", "mall", "mellohi", "stal", "strad", "ward", "11", "wait", "pigstep" 
*** {{cd|duration}} A float value that determines how long particles are spawned from the JukeBox Block, should approximately match length of sound event.
*** {{cd|comparator_signal}} An integer value that represents the strength of the analogue signal, used by the [[Comparator]] Block.

* {{cd|RunCommand}}
** Added support to entity json events for the run_command keyword alongside the current add and remove keywords. 
** Updated the following components to parse and use BlockDescriptor instead of Block*: {{cd|BlockBreakSensorComponent}}, {{cd|BlockListEventMap}}, {{cd|BreathableComponent}}, {{cd|BreedableComponent}}, {{cd|BuoyancyComponent}}, {{cd|EntityPlacerItemComponent}}, {{cd|PreferredPathComponent}}, {{cd|SeedItemComponentLegacy}}.
** Updated the following features to parse and use BlockDescriptor instead of Block*: {{cd|NoSurfaceOreFeature}}, {{cd|OreFeature}}, {{cd|SingleBlockFeature}}.
** Updated the following goal definitions to parse and use BlockDescriptor instead of Block*: {{cd|GoalDefinition}}, {{cd|RaidGardenGoal}}, {{cd|VanillaGoalDefinition}}.
** Updated the following surfaces code to parse and use BlockDescriptor instead of Block*: {{cd|MesaSurfaceAttributes}}, {{cd|SurfaceMaterialAdjustmentAttributes}}, {{cd|SurfaceMaterialAttributes}}.
** Updated the following tests to reflect the changes from updating code to use BlockDescriptors: {{cd|BuoyancyComponentServerTests}}, {{cd|FeatureHelperTests}}, {{cd|NoSurfaceOreFeatureTests}}, {{cd|OreFeatureTests}}, {{cd|SingleBlockFeatureTests}}.
** Updated the following trees to parse and use BlockDescriptor instead of Block*: {{cd|AcaciaTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|AcaciaTreeTrunk}}, {{cd|FallenTreeTrunk}}, {{cd|FancyTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|FancyTreeTrunk}}, {{cd|MegaPineTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|MegaTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|MegaTreeTrunk}}, {{cd|PineTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|RoofedTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|SimpleTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|SimpleTreeTrunk}}, {{cd|SpruceTreeCanopy}}, {{cd|TreeHelper}}.

* Schema 
** Split {{cd|allowed_blocks}} into {{cd|use_on}} and {{cd|dispense_on}}.
** {{cd|use_on}} specifies what blocks an entity placer item is allowed to be used on, omit to allow all blocks. 
** {{cd|dispense_on}} specifies what blocks an entity placer item is allowed to be dispensed on, omit to allow all blocks.

== Fixes == 
'''Performance and stability'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash on startup on Xbox One.

'''Achievement screen'''
* Time played now displays correctly on the achievement screen ({{bug|MCPE-66331}}).
* Allow navigating the focus to the summary by pressing left on the gamepad when narration is enabled.
* Updated input legends for achievement list and achievement reward.
* "Screen" is now narrated when opening an achievement detail screen.
* Fixed how we calculate how many rewards a player has.
* Show the achievements, even after a timeout, when the data has been fetched.
* Don't play click sounds when using a mouse button that is not primary.
* Fix issue where the scrollbar would appear even when there is no content to scroll.
* Added acceleration to focus navigation while using a gamepad.
* Fixed focus persistency while switching from the All tab.
* Fixed support for the mouse "back button" to go back from the achievements screen.
* Fixed support for the Escape button to go back from the achievements screen.
* Fixed an issue where the Input Legend for a Tab would be "open" even when the Tab was already selected.

'''General '''
* Fixed text-to-speech not reading the messages on various screens.
* Fixed maps not being in the list of items when using the {{cmd|clear}} command.
* Fixed sign-in button becoming unresponsive after backing out of sign-in prompt screen.

'''Gameplay '''
* Cobblestone is now shown as the default ingredient for stone tools ({{bug|MCPE-71843}}).
* Reduced and reintroduced linear attenuation for raid horn sound ({{bug|MCPE-85593}}).
* The correct sounds are now played for breaking and placing item frames ({{bug|MCPE-98901}}).</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.56]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.56]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.100.56]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.100.56]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.100.56]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.100.56 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.100.56]]