{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.8.1
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = November 20, 2024
| client = 1.21.60.21
| prevparent = 0.8.0
| prev = 
| next = 0.8.2
| nextparent = 0.9.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.8.1''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on November 20, 2024, that adds a roughen brush and fixes bugs.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/209</ref><ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31998389834637-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-60-21</ref>

== Additions ==
'''Roughen Brush'''
* Added a roughen brush as part of the terrain tool to roughen smooth areas. As the name suggests, this brush is the opposite of the smooth brush.

'''Color Picker'''
* Added color picker hue gradient selector works for monochromatic values.

== Changes ==
* Updated Editor Compass body to toggle between NSEW directions and Axis directions (Z, -Z, X, -X) on click.
* Updated block picker to a floating window and made the viewport behind it clearer for middle-click.
* Updated Flatten Brush to a Native Brush, increased maximum Height and Radius.
* Updated export and play test pane to now include beds work and required sleeping players as export options.
* Updated hot bar item to open block picker when shortcut key is pressed and block is already selected.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a number of missing block icon thumbnails for {{cd|block:// image}} resource.
* Fixed error sound triggered by pressing the number 9 key.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.8.1]]
[[ru:0.8.1 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.8.1 (Bedrock Editor)]]