{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.12020.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.120.20
| image = Bedrock 1.21.120.20 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.120.20.png
| build = 36570833
| editorver = 1.1.1
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952112020 (armeabi-v7a, 35)<br />
962112020 (x86, 35)<br />
972112020 (arm64-v8a, 35)<br />
982112020 (x86_64, 35)
| date = September 3, 2025
| server = 1.21.120.20
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.120.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.120.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.120
| prevparent = 1.21.114
| next = Preview 1.21.120.21
| nextparent = 1.21.121
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.120.20''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.120.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.120]], released on September 3, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/39262266489613-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-120-20|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.120.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 3, 2025}}</ref> which fixes some bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added splash "Music made by Hyper Potions!".

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Shelf]]'''
* Adding or removing redstone power to or from the shelf now emits vibrations.
** When a player places/removes/swaps an item on an unpowered shelf, a vibration of frequency 3 is emitted.
** When a player places/removes an item on a powered shelf, a vibration of frequency 3 is emitted.
** When a player swaps item with one on a powered shelf, a vibration of frequency 6 is emitted.

=== General ===
'''Camera'''
* The first person camera will now offset backwards slightly when facing and climbing blocks such as [[ladder]]s and [[vine]]s.

'''Graphical'''
* Added TAA upscaling to weather effects like snow.
* Improved quality of gamma correction on PC and Consoles.
* Mobs will now become slightly transparent when the camera gets too close or passes through them.

'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Starting a world with a missing Marketplace template will now correctly redownload the template and start the world.

'''UI'''
* Brightness adjustment was renamed to gamma adjustment in Vibrant Visuals.
* A "Reset to Defaults" button was added to the gamma adjustment screen in Vibrant Visuals.
* The slider widget that controls the Vibrant Visuals gamma value shows the current gamma value, and the center of the slider corresponds to the default value.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Chicken Jockey]]'''
* The baby zombie riding a chicken now drops the [[lava chicken music disc]] when killed by a tamed [[wolf]].

'''[[Copper Golem]]'''
* Copper golem step and spin sounds now use a natural attenuation curve.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Structure]]s'''
* Structures no longer build on top of features (e.g. [[tree]]s) at chunk borders.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Optionally set version property to {{cd|beta}} to always choose the latest beta version of the module. Example from {{cd|[[manifest.json]]}}:
<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
"dependencies": [
{
  "module_name": "@minecraft/server",
  "version": "beta"
}
</syntaxhighlight>
* {{cd|LootTableManager}}'s loot generation methods now properly recognize tools enchanted with looting.
* Moved type {{cd|ScriptBiomeType}} from {{cd|beta}} into {{cd|2.3.0}}.
* Moved API {{cd|Dimension.getBiome(location: Vector3)}} from {{cd|beta}} into {{cd|2.3.0}}.

'''[[Block]]s'''
* Custom blocks using a non-opaque {{cd|render_method}} in the {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} component that are placed above water will no longer incorrectly cull the top face of the water block.

'''Components'''
* The {{cd|all_slots_empty}}, {{cd|any_slot_empty}}, {{cd|has_equipment}} filters now support {{cd|main_hand}} as an equipment location.

'''Item Components'''
* Items with the new {{cd|minecraft:fire_resistant}} item component no longer visually disappear on the client when thrown in fire while persisting on the server, as the property is now synced correctly across both.

'''[[Molang]]'''
* Added 31 new Molang expressions:
** {{cd|math.inverse_lerp(start, end, value)}}, returns the normalized progress between start and end given value.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_quad(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow and accelerating toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_quad(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting fast and decelerating toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_quad(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow, accelerating in the middle, then slowing again at the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_cubic(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow and accelerating strongly toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_cubic(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting fast and decelerating strongly toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_cubic(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow, accelerating strongly in the middle, then slowing again at the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_quart(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow and accelerating rapidly toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_quart(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting fast and decelerating rapidly toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_quart(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow, accelerating rapidly in the middle, then slowing again at the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_quint(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow and accelerating sharply toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_quint(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting fast and decelerating sharply toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_quint(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow, accelerating sharply in the middle, then slowing again at the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_sine(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow and accelerating smoothly toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_sine(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting fast and decelerating smoothly toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_sine(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting and ending slow, with smoother change in the middle.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_expo(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow and accelerating very rapidly toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_expo(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting fast and decelerating gradually toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_expo(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting and ending slow, with very rapid change in the middle.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_circ(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting slow and accelerating along a circular curve toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_circ(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting fast and decelerating along a circular curve toward the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_circ(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting and ending slow, with circular acceleration and deceleration in the middle.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_bounce(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting with bounce oscillations and settling into the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_bounce(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, approaching the end with bounce oscillations that diminish over time.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_bounce(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting and ending with bounce oscillations, smoother in the middle.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_back(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, overshooting backward before accelerating into the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_back(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, overshooting past the end before settling into it.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_back(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, overshooting at both start and end, with smoother change in the middle.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_elastic(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, starting with elastic oscillations before accelerating into the end.
** {{cd|math.ease_out_elastic(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, overshooting the end with elastic oscillations before settling.
** {{cd|math.ease_in_out_elastic(start, end, 0_to_1)}}, output goes from start to end via {{cd|0_to_1}}, oscillating elastically at both start and end, with stable change in the middle.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Upcoming Creator Features", and "Render Dragon Features for Creators" [[experimental]] toggles.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Added {{cd|Dimension.getGeneratedStructures(location: Vector3)}} which can be used to locate the Structures {{cd|(Pillager Outpost, Mineshaft, etc.)}} of a given location.
* Added {{cd|worldAfterEvents.playerUseNameTag}} which fires when a Player uses a named NameTag Item on an Entity.
* Added {{cd|ControlScheme}} string enum.
* Added method {{cd|Player.setControlScheme(controlScheme?: string)}}: void; to {{cd|beta}}.
* Added method {{cd|Player.getControlScheme(): ControlScheme;}} to {{cd|beta}}.

'''Blocks'''
* Allow items referencing a pottable block in their {{cd|minecraft:block_placer}} component to be pottable when {{cd|replace_block_item}} is true.

'''[[Bedrock Editor|Editor]]'''
* Added an offset and alignment property to the summon tool so that creators can more easily position entities at specific locations.

'''Graphical'''
* Deprecated {{cd|point_lights/global.json}} in favor of a new file and schema, {{cd|local_lighting/local_lighting.json}}. Creators can still make use of {{cd|point_lights/global.json}}, but are encouraged to migrate to the new schema.
** Extended per-block local lighting information to include a {{cd|light_type}} which can be either {{cd|static_light}} or {{cd|point_light}}.
*** A block will only be considered for point lighting if its {{cd|light_type}} is set to {{cd|point_light}}.
*** {{cd|static_light}} is currently unused.
** The {{cd|light_color}} property is now optional. If unprovided, the block will use a fallback light color instead.
** A sample {{cd|local_lighting.json}} could look like this: {{cd|format_version}}: {{cd|1.21.120}}, {{cd|minecraft:local_light_settings}}: {{cd|minecraft:torch}}: {{cd|light_color}}: {{cd|#EFE39D}}, {{cd|light_type}}: {{cd|point_light}}.

'''[[Molang]]'''
* Added {{cd|query.entity_biome_has_any_identifier}}, {{cd|query.entity_biome_has_any_tags}}, and {{cd|query.entity_biome_has_all_tags}} molang query functions to Upcoming Creator Features.
** These queries only work in resource packs (client-side), and are not supported in behavior packs.
** {{cd|entity_biome_has_any_identifier('namespace:biome_name')}} takes a list of biome identifiers and checks if any are the specified biome the entity is in.
** {{cd|entity_biome_has_any_tags('my_tag_name')}} takes a list of biome tags and checks if the biome the entity is in matches any.
** {{cd|entity_biome_has_all_tags('my_tag_name')}} takes a list of biome tags and checks if the biome the entity is in matches all.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.120.20 Preview
|;old
|51173|No Suspicious Stew in the Creative menu.
|105710|Keyboard button for mobile devices in chat still exists on Windows, and Console.
|159992|{{cmd|locate biome deep_dark}} sometimes sent you to the wrong coordinates of the biome.
|177866|Custom items can't be used in commands if their menu category is "none" or undefined.
|180489|Custom blocks do not have a quick move animation.
|183832|Player sleep message says Users instead of Players.
|186409|Clicking text to reposition caret is wrong if the text box isn't scrolled fully right.
|190569|Enchantment glint animation still plays when the game is paused.
|191379|{{cmd|damage}} can damage end crystals even though the chat says it cannot.
|224011|Copper chest opening and closing sounds are too loud.
|225249|Items held by copper golems can't be taken when the player has an item in the offhand.
|225309|Some items stick out too far from shelves.
|225997|Tadpoles spawn in the upper northwest corner of the frogspawn block, often causing them to die out of the water.
|225999|Sitting Copper Golem Statue has inconsistent UV mapping.
|226160|Smooth lighting on partial blocks is broken after 1.21.100 update.
|226829|Items can’t be moved from creative inventory to player inventory.
|otherissuescount=8}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed an issue with being unable to continue destroying valid blocks in Adventure Mode when they are behind water.
*Fixed loading of text for sign blocks from very old worlds.
*Fixed snowflakes flickering during player movement.
*Fixed the brightness of creeper textures in the gamma calibration screen in Vibrant Visuals.
*Fixed a bug that could cause armor trims to appear applied to untrimmed armor in the inventory.
*Fixed an issue where worlds backed by Xbox cloud storage would show a default tile when local data was present but invalid.
*Fixed {{cd|Player.graphicsMode}} not returning the correct graphics mode when a player has switched to Vibrant Visuals.
*Fixed {{cd|query.graphics_mode_is_any}} not being correct when switching to Vibrant Visuals.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.120 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.120.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.120.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.120.20]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.120.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.120.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.120.20]]