{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.9026.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.90.26
| image = Bedrock 1.21.90.26.png
| build = 33583199
| editorver = 0.9.9.9
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952109026 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962109026 (x86, 34)<br />
972109026 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982109026 (x86_64, 34)
| date = May 20, 2025
| server = 1.21.90.26
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.26.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.90.26.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.90
| prevparent = 1.21.84
| prev = Preview 1.21.90.25
| next = Preview 1.21.90.27
| nextparent = 1.21.91
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.90.26''' (ChromeOS, Android), or '''Preview 1.21.90.26''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the fifth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.90]], released on May 20, 2025,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36757734170125-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-26|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.26|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=May 20, 2025}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]'''
*Now render from any chunk loaded in worlds opened in at least 1.21.90.

=== Command format ===
*The camera {{cd|default}} command will now properly reset third person camera view offset values
*The {{cmd|controlscheme}} command no longer requires the "Experimental Creator Camera" toggle.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Sound]]s'''
*{{cd|the_end_light_flash}} sound effect now triggers when the light flashes in the End dimension in Vibrant Visuals.
*Leashing, unleashing, collecting leashed mobs, and leashing mobs to other mobs now play custom sounds.
*Removing saddles, horse armor, harnesses, and carpets using shears now plays custom sounds.

'''The [[Overworld]]'''
*Re-enabled Overworld chunk blending which was disabled in the last preview.

'''Graphical'''
*Customized atmospherics, color grading, fog and lighting for the End, the Nether, the Overworld dimensions and a variety of biomes in [[Vibrant Visuals]].
**Some issues exist with atmospherics in End and Nether dimensions.
*Recalibrated all emissive values in MERS textures in Vibrant Visuals.
*Update shadow configurations for "Favors Performance" targets on all Xbox platforms in Vibrant Visuals mode.
*Update Volumetric configs for "Prefers Performance" targets on Xbox One and Xbox One X in Vibrant Visuals mode.
*Reduced the intensity and speed of the caustics animation in Vibrant Visuals.
*Increased emissive intensity and adjusted tone mapping parameters in Vibrant Visuals.
*Added {{cd|henyey_greenstein_g}} settings to the fog json files.
**New section {{cd|henyey_greenstein_g}} allows specifying value for both {{cd|air}} and {{cd|water}}.
**Example:
<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
{
    "format_version": "1.21.90",  
    "minecraft:fog_settings": {
        "description": {
            "identifier": "minecraft:test_henyey_greenstein_g"
        },
        "volumetric": {
            "henyey_greenstein_g": {
                "air": {
                    "henyey_greenstein_g": 0.5
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</syntaxhighlight>
*Updated the clouds texture.

=== General ===
'''[[Realms]]'''
*Realm owners can now choose to require members to opt into the Timeline in order to play on the Realm.
**To turn this feature on, go to Realms Stories --> Settings and enable "Require opt in to Timeline".
***The feature can be turned on and off at will.
**While the feature is on, Realm members who have not opted in will remain members of the Realm, but will not be able to play until they opt in.
***If a Realm member who previously opted in chooses to opt out, they will not be able to play on the Realm until they opt in again.
**Realm owners will be able to play on the Realm regardless of whether they have opted in.

'''UI'''
*The animated up and down arrows on the [[locator bar]] have been repositioned to be closer to the player dot.
*Closing an anvil or an enchanting table now results in the experience bar being shown for 5 seconds instead of the locator bar.
*While using the "Joystick & tap to interact" touch mode, the "Joystick Visibility Option" is now forced into "Visible Joystick" while using the {{cd|player_relative_strafe}} or {{cd|camera_relative_strafe}} control scheme.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
*Mobs' and players' legs are now positioned more horizontally when riding, reducing clipping into the ridden entity.

'''[[Boat]]'''
*Boats are now able to be pulled out of water using a lead.

'''[[Ghastling]]'''
*The ghastling model is now slightly smaller than before and closer in size to its collision box, though the two still differ.
*The model is intentionally smaller than the collision to prevent z-fighting.
*This is intentionally not in parity with {{JE}}, which doesn't require this workaround.

'''[[Happy Ghast]]'''
*The visual size of the happy ghast has been slightly reduced to prevent z-fighting with water and other adjacent blocks.
**This change is purely visual and does not affect the happy ghast's collision.
*Happy ghast now immediately loses its ability to collide with entities upon death.

'''[[Horse]], [[Donkey]], and [[Mule]]'''
*They can now be fed carrots to heal, grow, and improve their temper.
'''[[Zombified Piglin]]'''
*Baby variants are once again equipped with [[golden sword]]s.
**This change was not mentioned in the changelog

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Projectile]]s'''
*Projectiles now have a tolerance margin that changes over time.
**Previously, all projectiles had a fixed 0.3 blocks tolerance margin added to the collision.
**Now, all projectiles start with no margin for the first two ticks of their flight.
**After that, the target margin will expand by 0.05 blocks per tick until it reaches the target margin of 0.3 blocks.
**This allows for more precise collision on targets close to the shooting player or entity, while still allowing for some collision leeway for targets further away.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
:{{cd|@minecraft/server}}
*Added {{cd|localizationKey}} read only property to {{cd|Dimension}}, which is the key for localization of a dimension's name used in language files.
*Added {{cd|EntityHungerComponent}}, {{cd|EntitySaturationComponent}}, {{cd|EntityExhaustionComponent}} that allows read and write access to hunger, saturation, and exhaustion values on {{cd|player}} objects.
*Added {{cd|totalArmor}} and {{cd|totalToughness}} read only properties to {{cd|EntityEquippableComponent}}.
*{{cd|BlockMovableComponent}} APIs have been added to {{cd|beta}}.
**{{cd|BlockMovableComponent::movementType}}
**{{cd|BlockMovableComponent::stickyType}}
*Renamed {{cd|CameraEaseOptions}} to just {{cd|EaseOptions}} to for {{cd|V2.0}} scripting.
*Improved the naming used for the {{cd|name}} property of several custom error classes.
*Block custom component event {{cd|beforeOnPlayerPlace}} is now called when an item using {{cd|replace_block_item}} is set to true for V2.0.0 and higher custom components.
**In 2.0.0, when using {{cd|setCurrentValue}} of an {{cd|EntityAttributeComponent}}, the desired value is checked against the {{cd|effectiveMin}} and {{cd|effectiveMax}}. If the value is out of bounds, an error is thrown.
*Enabled {{cd|Player.applyImpulse}} and {{cd|Player.clearVelocity}} in {{cd|beta}}, which no longer throw errors.

:{{cd|@minecraft/server-admin}}
*Updated {{cd|transferPlayer}} to support NetherNet transfers. It now takes either a hostname/port combination or a NetherNet ID.

'''[[Dedicated Server]]'''
*Exposed a new parameter for dedicated server to disallow usage of Vibrant Visuals while connected.

'''[[Molang]]'''
*Added the {{cd|query.is_riding_any_entity_of_type}} Molang query, which checks whether an entity is riding another entity of any specified type.

'''UI'''
*Added warning pop-up for some Android devices when switching to Vibrant Visuals graphics mode.
*Added a toggle to video settings to enable in-game graphics mode switching. Enabling in-game graphics mode switching may impact texture quality.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features" experimental toggle.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[Block]]s'''
*Added {{cd|minecraft:movable}} component under the "Upcoming Creator Features" toggle. This allows for blocks to configure how they should react when moved by a piston.
**{{cd|movement_type}} (Required): Specifies how the block should react when moved by a piston.
***{{cd|push_pull}}: Will allow a block to be pushed by a piston/sticky piston and pulled by a sticky piston (e.g. grass).
***{{cd|push}}: Will allow a block to be pushed by a piston/sticky piston (e.g. glazed terracotta).
***{{cd|immovable}}: Will not allow a block to be pushed or pulled by a piston/sticky piston (e.g. bedrock).
***{{cd|popped}}: Will pop a block when pushed by a piston/sticky piston (e.g. leaves).
**{{cd|sticky}} (Optional): Specifies how the block should handle adjacent blocks when moved by a piston.
***{{cd|none}}: Default. Will not add any additional behavior.
***{{cd|same}}: Will move adjacent blocks along with it when moved by a piston. It will not move different blocks with {{cd|"sticky": "same"}} (e.g. a honey block can move another honey block but not a slime block).
****NOTE: This field only works when used with:
<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
"movement_type": "push_pull"
"format_version": "1.21.90",
"minecraft:movable": {
"movement_type": "push_pull",
"sticky": "same"
</syntaxhighlight>

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''World generation'''
*Namespaces can now be used in template pool element location and jigsaw block identifiers.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.90.26 Preview
|;old
|21743|Punching a leash knot uses the generic punch sound
|68841|A Little text error.
|89549|No stray and wither jockeys
|172657|A player sits in the boat too high (Java parity)
|187962|Storage management UI does not allow access to all controls for mobile devices
|188934|When playing splitscreen and second player looks up then down, the clouds for the first player disappear
|190716|Arm detaches from body and shield in off-hand slot floats above shoulder when game is paused
|201608|Happy Ghast takes Friendly Fire Damage from Players standing on top
|201809|Vibrant Visuals: Night Vision effect is extremely dark instead of bright
|201984|Vibrant Visuals: Standing near a lightsource illuminates the sky
|203972|Vibrant Visuals: Screen appears black
|204062|Vibrant Visuals: Water has blue fog trail following it
|212932|Music immediately cuts off instead of fading out when exiting the world with pause feature disabled
|217551|Player Locator Bar doesn't show player locations correctly in split screen multiplayer
|218740|Happy ghast is not scaled down properly when harnessed
|;previous
|217634|Breeze and Blaze spawn eggs do not match Java Edition spawn eggs
|218297|Ghast fireballs have a green glint like XP orbs
|218652|Death Screen shows keyboard hints below
|219598|Wandering Traders have leash connected to their feet after Leashing Updates.
|otherissuescount=18}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed an issue with dried ghast block where replacing a dried ghast block in the same location would keep the random tick of the old, removed block, causing it to age faster than expected.
*Fixed a bug where entities that should not be moving were moving slightly.
*The back faces of transparent items held in hand, like stained glass, are no longer visible in Vibrant Visuals.
*Clouds no longer have a pink or yellow tint, during sunrise and sunset respectively, in Vibrant Visuals.
*Fixed inconsistent pixels on the pale oak boat and pale oak boat with chest items to match other boat items.
*The green harness item no longer uses the gray harness texture when Vibrant Visuals is enabled.
*Happy ghast and ghastlings no longer z-fight with adjacent blocks.
*Ghastlings are no longer rotated sideways when riding boats or chest boats.
*Happy ghast and ghast shadows are no longer cast on their tentacles when Fancy Graphics are enabled.
*Ropes wrapping a happy ghast are now rendered when certain entities are attached to it and it is harnessed.
*Cows and mooshrooms no longer render with four ropes when leashed to a happy ghast.
*Ghasts can no longer spawn in areas that are too small, preventing suffocation on spawn.
*Large entities attached by a leash to the happy ghast now properly render with four leashes when using simple graphics.
*The player dot now correctly decreases to the smallest size for the stationary player when another player moves linearly away from them.
*Fixed an issue where some on-screen UI elements would let the user interact with the world under them.
*Fixed a bug where the {{cd|includeLiquidBlocks}} property on {{cd|BlockRaycastOptions}} would not correctly result in hits on flowing water. This affects the following API methods in all versions: {{cd|entity.getBlockFromViewDirection}}, {{cd|dimension.getBlockFromRay}}, {{cd|dimension.getBlockBelow}}, and {{cd|dimension.getBlockAbove}}.
*Fixed a crash when adding or changing priority of resource packs in the create new world screen.
*Terrain matching jigsaw template pools will no longer create floating islands.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.90 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.90.26]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.90.26]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.90.26 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.90.26 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.90.26]]