{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.5024.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.50.24<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.21.50.24 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.50.24.png
| build = 28532840
| editorver = 0.7.5
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952105064 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962105064 (x86, 34)<br />
972105064 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982105064 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = October 17, 2024
| server = 1.21.50.24
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.24.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.24.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.50
| prevparent = 1.21.44
| prev = Preview 1.21.50.20
| next = Preview 1.21.50.25
| nextparent = 1.21.51
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.50.24''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.50.24''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the third beta and second ''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50]], released on October 17, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31137892416269|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.50.24|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 17, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''All [[Copper Door]]s, [[Iron Door]], [[Heavy Weighted Pressure Plate]], [[Light Weighted Pressure Plate]], [[Polished Blackstone Pressure Plate]], and [[Stone Pressure Plate]]'''
*The blocks that require support now always drop when broken with any tool.

'''[[Block of Amethyst]]'''
*Adjusted volume & pitch for break, hit, place, fall, step & land sounds for it.

'''[[Budding Amethyst]]'''
*Is now slower to mine with an improper tool.

'''[[Creaking Heart]]'''
*Creaking heart with a spawned creaking and partial pale oak support now deactivates if the creaking is despawned via commands.
*Creaking heart data is no longer retained when {{keys|ctrl}}-picking the block in Creative mode.
*Creaking heart is now immovable by pistons.
*Creaking heart can no longer be used as fuel.
*Creaking heart spawning and despawning its creaking now emits vibrations from the creaking’s position.

'''[[Flower]]s and [[Mushroom]]s '''
*They no longer generate in the Pale Garden biome.

'''[[Pale Oak Sapling]]s '''
*They are now grown into pale oaks with hanging pale moss on them, but no pale moss patch at their base.

=== Items ===
'''[[Heavy Core]]s'''
*Updated item's texture.

'''[[Pale Oak Boat with Chest]]'''
* The texture of the item has been adjusted for consistency with other boats with chest.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Zombified Piglin]]s'''
*Zombified piglins spawned by nether portals now have a 15-second cooldown before they can use the portal again.

=== General ===
'''[[Realms]]'''
*Added a loading modal when changing active Realms slots to prevent a glitch where multiple Realms slot settings screen are pushed to the stack because of player's button mashing the edit world button.
*Added a new Realm Event related to mobs.

'''UI'''
*Removed the "New Bed Screen" toggle from video settings. (''Preview'' only)
*Added missing quickswap animations in GUI for several blocks.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Pale moss patches]]'''
*Tweaked the size and placement of pale moss patches:
**Pale moss patches are now larger when naturally generated.
**Pale moss patches now have a chance to naturally generate without being adjacent to a pale oak.
**Pale moss patches now have less tall grass growing on them.

'''[[Pale oak]]'''
*Increased pale oak density to match {{JE}}.

=== Technical ===
'''API'''
*Added {{cd|beforeEvents}} object to {{cd|@minecraft/server-net}} module version {{cd|1.0.0-beta}} which exposes two events:
**{{cd|packetReceive}}: This event is called when the game server receives a network packet from a client. If cancelled, the server will silently ignore the packet.
**{{cd|packetSend}}: This event is called when the game server sends a network packet to client(s). If cancelled, the packet is dropped and never sent to the recipients.

'''Blocks'''
*Added new field {{cd|ambient_occlusion_exponent}} to {{cd|blocks.json}} file schema in resource packs, replaces broken {{cd|brightness_gamma}} field.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
*Added new method {{cd|lookAt}} to {{cd|Entity}} which sets the rotation of the entity to face the desired target location.

=== Changes === 
==== Technical ====
'''Scripting'''
*Enum {{cd|InputMode}}.
**Removed {{cd|Undetermined}} entry.
*Class {{cd|InputInfo}}.
**Throws {{cd|EngineError}} instead of {{cd|Error}} in case of internal error.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.50.24 Preview
|;old
|33950|Dispensers, droppers, brewing stands, furnaces, blast furnaces, enchantment tables, hoppers, smokers, stonecutters, cauldrons will drop if you break them using your hands.
|145524|Haptic feedback not working on block destroy [on iOS and iPadOS].
|166005|Thai language fonts are broken - only partially render.
|174191|Blocks with texture variations will ignore PBR texture sets when using deferred lighting.
|176374|Crafter breaking times are different on Bedrock.
|185964|Touch control buttons get scrambled when switching to multi-windowed/split-screen mode and back.
|186341|Paper doll overlaps with the armor bar in Pocket UI.
|;previous
|187289|Pale oak sign item and block texture is not consistent with previous signs.
|187291|Pale Garden fog is blue.
|187294|Stripped Pale Oak Log texture is inconsistent with Java.
|187298|Untethered creaking mob when switching creaking heart using pistons.
|187304|Pale oak sign edit UI has a gap in the left top corner.
|187305|Parity issue: the creaking heart can be pushed by pistons on bedrock.
|187335|Pale oak trees grown by player don’t generate pale moss or vines.
|187389|Pale Garden tree density is much lower on Bedrock than Java.
|otherissuescount=5}}
'''Other'''
*Pale moss carpet no longer floats in the player’s hand while in 3rd-person view.
*The {{cmd|kill}} command or any damage greater or equal to the target's current life will now kill it in base game versions below 1.18.20.
*Fixed an issue where game mode and difficulty were not being preserved after uploading or replacing world in Realms Slot.
*Bundles that are moved under a player's cursor now correctly update their tooltip.
*Fixed a spelling error in an advanced tip for worlds with resource packs.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.50 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.50.24]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.50.24]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.50.24 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.50.24]]