{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=RTX.png
|image2=Ray Tracing.jpg
|image3=Bedrock 1.15.0.8.png
|sort=beta 1.15.0.08
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.15.8.0<br>
|type=Beta
|date='''Windows 10:''' April 16, 2020
|parent=1.16.200
|next=beta 1.15.0.9
|nextparent=
}}<onlyinclude>'''Beta 1.15.0.8''' is the first [[RenderDragon]] beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.200]], released on April 16, 2020,<ref>{{cite|url=https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360041035092|title=Minecraft NVIDIA RTX FAQ}}</ref> which introduces RenderDragon to the Windows 10 port. This is also the first ever RTX Beta released in 2020.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added the Advanced Video settings.
* Added the DirectX Ray Tracing toggle.
** Used to toggle the [[Wikipedia:Ray tracing (graphics)|Ray Tracing]] on or off.
* Added the Upscaling toggle.
** Used to boost frame rates on GeForce RTX graphics cards with NVIDIA DLSS 2.0.
* Added the Ray Tracing View Bobbing toggle.
** Used to toggle the "bobbing" motion of the camera while using ray tracing.
* Added the Ray Tracing Render Distance toggle.
** Used to control the chunk render distance ray tracing are visible at once.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Options]]'''
* Fancy Leaves, Fancy Bubbles, Render Clouds, Beautiful Skies, Smooth Lighting, Fancy Graphics and View Bobbing are now moved to the Advanced Video settings.

'''[[Resource Pack]]s'''
* Resource packs now support ray tracing.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.8]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.8]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.15.0.8]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.8]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.15.0.8]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.15.0.8]]
[[ru:Beta 1.15.0.8 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.15.0.8]]