{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.40.21 PatchNotes.png
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.40.21.png
| build = 17967209
| editorver = 0.4.4
| internal ='''Windows 10''': 1.20.4021.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.4021.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.40.21
| server = 1.20.40.21
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952004021（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962004021（x86，33）<br>
972004021（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982004021（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = September 13, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.40.21.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.40.21.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.40
| prevparent = 1.20.32
| prev = Preview 1.20.40.20
| next = Preview 1.20.40.22
| nextparent = 1.20.41
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.40.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.40.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.40]], released on September 13, 2023<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/19424781869837-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-40-21|title=Minecraft - Beta & ''Preview'' 1.20.40.21|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 13, 2023}}</ref>,  which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Water]]'''
* The ambient sounds for entering exiting water is now played only when an [[entity]] is submerged below eye-level in water, matching {{JE}}.
* The splash sound for entering water has been updated to match {{JE}}.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-174960}}</ref>

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Wither]]'''
* The [[boss bar]] on the HUD is now same color as {{JE}}.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Villager Trade Rebalancing" and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
=== Changes ===
==== Items ====
'''[[Explorer Map]]s'''
* The seven new explorer maps from [[cartographer]]s can now also point to structures in already explored chunks.

==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Released <code>World.getMoonPhase</code>, <code>MoonPhase</code>, and <code>MoonPhaseCount</code> v<code>1.6.0</code>.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* Deprecated <code>minecraft:weapon</code> component starting in version 1.20.40.
* Deprecated <code>minecraft:on_use</code> component starting in version 1.20.40.
* Deprecated <code>minecraft:on_use_on</code> component starting in version 1.20.40.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.40.21 Preview
|;From released versions before 1.20.0
|38566|D-Pad Touch controls not calibrated properly (up/down buttons).
|43591|Incorrect wither boss bar texture in Bedrock.
|52904|When you block a tipped arrow or shulker bullet with a shield, you still get the affect.
|85954|Villages in the nether or end are unstable.
|;From the version 1.20.0
|172674|Camel is missing the dash button on smartphone touch controls.
|;From the previous versions
|173006|Iron golems spawn in 2 block high space.
|173799|<code>minecraft:transformation</code> scale key without limit.
|174524|Water splash sounds no longer plays after the addition of entering/exiting water sound.
|174529|Water from a waterlogged block cannot be removed with an empty bucket without aiming at the block in the water.
|otherissuescount=3}}
'''Others'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur when running in the archold room in the spellrune marketplace map.
* Fixed an issue where particles were not consistently lit while in the "Deferred Technical Preview".
* Camels can no longer dash while in lava or water.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.40 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.40.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.40.21]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.40.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.40.21]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.40.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.40.21]]