{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.30.21 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.30.21.png
| build = 17116428
| editorver = 0.4.3
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.3021.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.30.21<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.3021.70
| server = 1.20.30.21
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952003021（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962003021（x86，33）<br>
972003021（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982003021（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = August 9, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.30.21.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.30.21.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.30
| prevparent = 1.20.15
| prev = Preview 1.20.30.20
| next = Preview 1.20.30.22
| nextparent = 1.20.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.30.21''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.30.21''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the sixth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.30]], released on August 9, 2023<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/18365310423565-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-30-21|title=Minecraft - beta 1.20.30.21 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=August 9, 2023}}</ref>, which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added '''Improved Input Response''' experimental video option.
** Only available for players on Windows.
** Reduces input latency.
*** Enabling this setting will increase battery consumption.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Pumpkin]]'''
* Using [[shear]]s on it now produces a carving sound to match {{JE}}.

'''[[Sculk Sensor]] and [[Calibrated Sculk Sensor]]'''
* Can now detect the following events:
** Applying a [[nametag]].
** [[Evoker]]s summoning [[vex]]es or fangs.
** [[Chicken]]s, [[frog]]s, and [[turtle]]s laying eggs.
** Using [[bone meal]].
** [[Chiseled Bookshelf|Chiseled bookshelves]] when [[book]]s are inserted into them using [[hopper]]s.
** Extinguishing [[fire]].
** Mounting or dismounting a [[vehicle]].
** [[Rabbit]]s eating [[carrot]] crops.
** [[Fox]]es eating [[sweet berry]] bushes.
** Unequipping [[armor]].
** Placing a [[banner]], [[bamboo sapling]], [[lily pad]], or a [[head]].
** Placing [[frogspawn]]s.
** Placing or adding [[sea pickles]].
** Adding/destroying a [[turtle egg]].
** [[Turtle egg]]s cracking.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Sneaking]] and [[Crawling]]'''
* Players can now toggle flying when crawling or sneaking in Creative Mode.

=== General ===
'''[[UI]]'''
* Updated the menu HUD icons for touch controls.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Husk]]'''
* Now plays a sound when converting to a [[drowned]].

'''[[Pig]]'''
* Now emit sounds when transformed into [[zombified piglin]].

'''[[Snow Golem]]'''
* Now plays a sound when they throw [[snowball]]s.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* The discount for curing a villager is no longer multiplied if the villager is reinfected and cured again.

'''[[Witch]]'''
* Now throws [[Healing]] and [[Regeneration]] [[potion]]s at raiders during village [[raid]]s.

'''[[Hoglin]]'''
* Now have their own sound when transforming into [[zoglin]]s.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Moved <code>ProjectileHitBlockAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ProjectileHitEntityAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ProjectileHitBlockAfterEventSignal</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
* Moved <code>ProjectileHitEntityAfterEventSignal</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
* Moved <code>BlockHitInformation</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
* Moved <code>EntityHitInformation</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>spawnParticle(effectName: string, location: Vector3, molangVariables?: MolangVariableMap)</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>setColorRGB(variableName: string, color: RGB)</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>setColorRGBA(variableName: string, color: RGBA)</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>setFloat(variableName: string, number: number)</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>setSpeedAndDirection(variableName: string, speed: number, direction: Vector3)</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>setVector3(variableName: string, vector: Vector3)</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
* <code>RGB</code>
** Moved <code>RGB</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>RGBA</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
** Moved <code>triggerEvent(eventName: string)</code> to <code>1.5.0</code>.
* Renamed <code>EntityEquipmentInventoryComponent</code> to <code>EntityEquippableComponent</code>.
* Updated <code>isSolid</code>, <code>isLiquid</code>, and <code>isAir</code> to be properties instead of methods.
* <code>ScriptEventCommandMessageAfterEvent</code>
** Made <code>initiator</code>, <code>sourceBlock</code>, and <code>sourceEntity</code> optional types.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.30.21 Preview
|;From released versions before 1.20.0
|44296|Fence gates don't have the correct model in the inventory.
|85888|Horizon changes color when standing under blocks.
|87379|Hoglins play wrong conversion sounds.
|95872|Netherite items make burn sounds in lava.
|96015|Items burning in lava doesn't make the burning sound and is inconsistent when doing so.
|119083|When a snow golem throws a snowball it plays the arrow shoot sound.
|139021|Game crashes while entering a world where you are going through the endportal back to the overworld.
|168887|Sculk sensors do not detect when chiseled bookshelf changes with using hoppers and droppers.
|169557|Pigs do not make death sound upon being converted.
|;From 1.20 versions
|172704|Sculk Sensor triggers repeatedly when there are arrows, tridents, or thrown items on top of it.
|172920|[ScriptAPI] <code>ScoreboardObjective::removeParticipant&nbsp;</code> is not synced with clients.
|173323|Pillager outposts do not generate in cherry groves.
|otherissuescount=7}}
'''other'''
* Players can now toggle flying when crawling or sneaking in Creative Mode.
* The game no longer crashes when it tries to place an invalid custom feature.
* Crouch-jumping while aiming forward and holding down the build button will no longer continue to build blocks upwards past where the player is aiming.
* Fixed a crash in the "Deferred Technical Preview" that could occur while generating terrain.
* Fixed issue with content errors occurring with the "Holiday Creator Features" experimental toggle turned on when using a JSON object version of <code>max_stack_size</code>, <code>can_destroy_in_creative</code>, <code>hover_text_color</code>.
* Fixed worlds downloaded from realms not loading packs correctly.
* Collecting fish, axolotls, and tadpoles with buckets now emits vibrations at the right position.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.30.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.30.21]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.30.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.30.21]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.30.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.30.21]]