{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.23.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.0.23
| image = Bedrock 1.21.0.23 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.0.23.png
| build = 24009187
| editorver = 0.6.2
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952100023 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962100023 (x86, 34)<br />
972100023 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982100023 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = April 24, 2024
| server = 1.21.0.23
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.0.23.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.0.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.0
| prevparent = 1.20.81
| prev = Preview 1.21.0.22
| next = Preview 1.21.0.24
| nextparent = 1.21.1
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.0.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.21.0.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.0]], released on April 24, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/26100457790093|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.0.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 24, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Game rule]]s'''
* Added <code>showDaysPlayed</code>, to control whether show a HUD overlay that displays the number of days played in a world.

=== General ===
'''[[Ambience]]'''
* Added 4 new ambient cave sounds.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Smooth Stone Slab]], [[Sandstone Slab]], [[Cobblestone Slab]], [[Bricks Slab]], [[Stone Bricks Slab]], [[Quartz Slab]], and [[Nether Brick Slab]]'''
* The different stone slab type [[block states]] for the <code>stone_block_slab</code> ID have now been split up into their own IDs.
{|class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wikitable"
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|Old ID]]
! [[Bedrock Edition data values|New ID]]
|-
| rowspan="7" | {{BlockSprite|Smooth Stone Slab}} <code>stone_block_slab</code>
| {{BlockSprite|Smooth Stone Slab}} <code>smooth_stone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|Sandstone Slab}} <code>sandstone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|Cobblestone Slab}} <code>cobblestone_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|Brick Slab}} <code>brick_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|Stone Brick Slab}} <code>stone_brick_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|Quartz Slab}} <code>quartz_slab</code>
|-
| {{BlockSprite|Nether Brick Slab}} <code>nether_brick_slab</code>
|}

'''[[Trial Spawner]]'''
* Now emit trial omen [[particles]] instead of sculk soul particles when becoming ominous.
* Adjusted loot tables for projectiles dropped when in ominous state to match {{JE}}.

=== Items ===
'''[[Ominous Bottle]]'''
* Changed the sounds when breaking after use.

'''[[Mace]]'''
* Can now be enchanted with [[Unbreaking]], [[Smite]], [[Fire Aspect]], and [[Bane of Arthropods]].
* Tweaked the cost of applying the Mace's exclusive enchantments in the [[enchantment table]].

'''[[Splash Potion]]s'''
* Now have the same duration as drinkable potions.

'''[[Trial Chambers Map]]'''
* The "Trial Chambers Map" has been renamed to "Trial Explorer Map".

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Breeze]]'''
* Now aims slightly higher when shooting at the player.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Breeze Wind Charge]]'''
* Can now hurt mobs in [[boat]]s and [[minecart]]s.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Effect]]s'''
* [[Bad Omen]]
** Will no longer emit particles around the player when drinking it from an ominous bottle.
** Changed the sounds when applied.
* [[Infested]]
** Now has a 10% chance to spawn 1-2 silverfish instead of 5%.
** Silverfish will now spawn at the center of the entity's bounding box and fling out in the direction the entity is facing.
* [[Raid Omen]]
** Changed the sounds when converted/applied from [[Bad Omen]].
* [[Weaving]]
** Now more consistently spawns 2-3 cobwebs on death.
** Players are now affected by the movement buff through cobwebs, affecting 50% of their normal speed instead of 25%.

'''[[Ominous Trial]]s'''
* Players are now chosen 50% of the time when an ominous trial spawner chooses which entity to drop projectiles on top of.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Trial Chambers]]'''
* Remade 'Chamber 6' with variations, and renamed it to 'Assembly'.
* Added a new trap dispenser style to chambers.
* Added new intersection variation.
* Fixed various broken jigsaw connections in the corridors.
* Chamber Eruption:
** Added missing water bucket to the dispenser.
* Added new wall dispenser style.

=== Technical ===
'''[[API]]'''
* Fixed <code>GameRules</code> rule property-setters so that changes are propagated to clients.
* Moved <code>startItemCooldown</code> and <code>player.getItemCooldown</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Released <code>playSound</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* <code>playSound</code> is now deprecated and will be removed in a future major version. Use <code>Dimension.playSound</code> as the alternative.
* Released <code>ListBlockVolume</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Released <code>BlockVolumeBase</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>
* Released <code>BlockLocationIterator</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved method <code>getGameMode(): GameModefrom</code> from  <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved method <code>setGameMode(gameMode?: GameMode): void</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved member <code>playerGameModeChange: PlayerGameModeChangeAfterEventSignal</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved member <code>playerGameModeChange: PlayerGameModeChangeBeforeEventSignal</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved class <code>PlayerGameModeChangeAfterEvent</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved class <code>PlayerGameModeChangeAfterEventSignal</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved class <code>PlayerGameModeChangeBeforeEvent</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Moved class <code>PlayerGameModeChangeBeforeEventSignal</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.
* Change <code>waitTick(ticks?: number)</code> to <code>system.waitTicks(ticks: number);</code>.
* Renamed property <code>selectedSlot</code> to <code>selectedSlotIndex</code> and moved it from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.11.0</code>.

'''Components'''
* The default values for the <code>damage_sources</code> field of <code>behavior.panic</code> have been updated.
** This change only affects entities with a format version of <code>1.21.0</code> or higher.
* Multiple items with the same custom component will now correctly trigger custom component logic.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experimental toggles.
=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Added <code>ItemComponentConsumeEvent</code> for <code>beta</code>.
* <code>EntityTameMountComponent</code>
** Added method <code>tameToPlayer</code>.
** Added properties <code>isTamed</code>, <code>isTamedToPlayer</code>, <code>tamedToPlayer</code>, and <code>tamedToPlayerId</code>.
* <code>GameRules</code>
** Added property <code>showDaysPlayed</code> to <code>beta</code>.
* Fixed <code>PlayerInputPermissionsinput-lock</code> category property-setters so that changes are propagated to clients.

'''[[Deferred Rendering Pipeline]]'''
* Fixed a bug with volumetric fog shading in the Deferred Technical Preview that was causing fog to be much brighter than it should have been. Volumetric fog in the Deferred Technical Preview now matches the look of volumetric fog in RTX much more closely. Fog definitions in resource packs developed for the Deferred Technical Preview will need to be updated after this change. To maintain a similar look, the values for either <code>max_density</code> or <code>scattering</code> should be increased by a factor of 12.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.0.23 Preview
|;old
|167513|Various mobs panic when taking falling damage
|176613|Some Copper / Tuff recipes still missing
|178878|Powder Snow block doesn't negate fall damage caused by using wind charge
|178891|Wind Charge's fall damage is not canceled by the slime block
|178910|"min_engine_version" causes vanilla resource pack of entities to not work correctly with entities that only have one file
|179679|Mace cannot be enchanted with Unbreaking, Smite, Bane of Arthropods and Fire Aspect
|;previous
|180279|Spectator mode does not work properly after re-entering the world after die in hardcore mode.
|180291|No loot when using trial key on trial vault
|180380|Decorated Pots made with Pottery Sherds in Trial Chambers are not oriented correctly
|180417|Flower forest biome only generates poppies, rose bushes, peonies, and lilacs
|180499|Enchanted books with breach, density, or wind burst enchantment cannot be obtained by ominous vaults
|180527|Torches are centered in slots
|otherissuescount=3}}
'''Others'''
* Copper trapdoor now oxidizes with time.
* Fixed a recipe bug where any type of stone slab could be used to craft a grindstone with crimson, mangrove, or warped planks. It can now only accept the actual normal stone slab, no other type of stones.
* When using touch controls, nether portals can once again be destroyed by destroying the portal surface.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.0 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.0.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.0.23]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock Preview 1.21.0.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.0.23]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.0.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.0.23]]