{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.40.23 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.40.23.png
| build = 18318616
| editorver = 0.4.6
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.4023.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.4023.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.40.23
| server = 1.20.40.23
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952004023（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962004023（x86，33）<br>
972004023（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982004023（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = September 27, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.40.23.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.40.23.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.40
| prevparent = 1.20.32
| prev = Preview 1.20.40.22
| next = Preview 1.20.40.24
| nextparent = 1.20.41 
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.40.23''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.40.23''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the fourth beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.40]], released on September 27, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/19883048087693-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-40-23|title=Minecraft - Beta & ''Preview'' 1.20.40.23|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 27, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs" and "Molang Features" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[JSON]]'''
* Unlocked <code>behavior.random_search_and_dig</code>.
* <code>target_blocks</code> field added. List of blocks that the mob can dig on. Default if <code>target_blocks</code> isn't added is dirt, grass, podzol, dirt with roots, moss, mud, and muddy mangrove roots.
* <code>item_table</code> field added. Path to a loot table that specifies what the mob can dig up. <code>item_table</code> takes precedence over <code>items</code>.
* Content errors added if the behavior has trouble reading or finding <code>item_table</code> and if unable to get an item from <code>items</code>.
* <code>on_item_found</code> event now fires on item found AND digging finished. Before the event firing caused the digging to stop early.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
* Added <code>matches</code> function called on an entity, which takes in <code>EntityQueryOptions</code> and returns true if the entity matches and false otherwise.
* Moved <code>getRotation</code> from <code>Beta</code> to <code>1.6.0</code>.
* Move <code>setRotation</code> from <code>beta</code> to <code>1.6.0</code>.
* Added <code>PlayerLeaveBeforeEvent</code> - This event fires when a player leaves the server, before the ''Player'' object is removed.
* Releasing <code>PlayerDimensionChangeAfterEvent</code> <code>beta</code> to <code>1.6.0</code>.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.40.23 Preview
|;From released versions before 1.20.0
|169001|Random light sources in the world.
|;From the version 1.20.0
|169765|Warped fungus on a stick is held backwards in 1st person.
|173073|Minecraft world can't interact and save (Windows and Android).
|173010|3rd person perspective goes through the east and south sides of the cauldron.
|;From the previous development versions
|174524|Water splash sounds no longer plays after the addition of entering/exiting water sound.
|174859|Powder snow does not prevent fall damage.
|175156|Goat Horn sounds are again controlled by "Hostile Creatures" instead of "Jukebox/Note Blocks".
|otherissuescount=7}}
'''Others'''
* Lightweight mobs and entities wearing leather boots once again sink into the top layer of Powder Snow when falling from a height of more than two and a half blocks.
* Splash particles are now emitted at an actor's waist instead of above their head
* Fixed a crash related to tessellation of water blocks.
* Placing invalid items into offhand slot will no longer cause them to drop.
* Fixed a bug where the sniffer ended digging as soon as item was created, not at the end of the specified dig duration.
* Fixed a bug that prevented summon NPC commands from working if the users did not have worldbuilder permissions where the base version of the world was before [[1.19.80]].
* High emissive values (> 0.25) no longer obscure surface detail in the "Deferred Technical Preview".</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.40 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.40.23]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.40.23]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.40.23]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.40.23]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.40.23 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.40.23]]