{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Crystal 1.17.0.58.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.0.58.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.58.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.58.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.0.58<br>
|parent=1.17.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': May 20, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.221
|prev=beta 1.17.0.56
|next=
|nextparent=1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.0.58''' is the ninth and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0]], released on May 20, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360061124392|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.0.58 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=May 20, 2021}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Technical ===
'''Mobs'''
* Added a new field "<code>transform_to_item</code>" to the "<code>minecraft:ageable</code>" component. 
** If the field is filled with an item name, the item will be given back when any of "<code>feed_items</code>" are used. Similar to "<code>transform_to_item</code>" in the "<code>minecraft:breedable</code>" component.

== Fixes ==
'''Dripstone'''
* Long [[stalactite]]s drip only from the tip.
* Stalactites now drip water slightly more often when filling a [[cauldron]].
* Pointed dripstone now correctly gets destroyed after the block it was placed on is broken by block updates.

'''User Interface'''
* Tweaked background color of settings screens.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed a bug that could occur on older worlds where looking up in a [[minecart]] would display the inside of the minecart blocking the player's view.
* Maps inside [[glow item frame]]s no longer cause nearby items to light up.

'''Items'''
* Picking or breaking glow item frames now gives the correct item ({{bug|MCPE-117514}}).
* Advanced Pick Block will now save the data of copied blocks correctly ({{bug|MCPE-126040}}).
* [[Furnace]]s, [[smoker]]s, and [[blast furnace]]s now become unlit when fuel finishes ({{bug|MCPE-127550}}, {{bug|MCPE-127559}}).
* Fixed a bug where the map was centered on player's position when it was created ({{bug|MCPE-126607}}).
* Baby [[axolotl]]s no longer consume the [[bucket]] when being fed with a [[bucket of tropical fish]].
* Buckets that were used to feed axolotls can now be stacked together with other empty buckets ({{bug|MCPE-127426}}).

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed ripple effect on portals and crash when creating a large amount of portal blocks ({{bug|MCPE-126674}}, {{bug|MCPE-126690}}).
* Fixed bubble columns on naturally generated magma blocks ({{bug|MCPE-127196}}).

'''Commands'''
* Function's positional offset is no longer re-evaluated for every command inside the function when run with the {{cmd|execute}} command. It is now only evaluated once for the whole function ({{bug|MCPE-124890}}).

'''Technical'''
* Fixed an issue with signs not displaying the saved text upon placement.
* The "has_equipment" filter once again supports data values.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.0.58]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.0.58]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.0.58]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.0.58]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.0.58]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.0.58 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.0.58]]