{{Infobox version
| title = v1.14.30
| vernum = 1.14.30
| image = Minecraft Bedrock v1.14.30.jpg
| edition = Bedrock
| build = 3678058
| date = '''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire OS, Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Gear VR, Xbox One, PlayStation 4''' – February 11, 2020<br>
'''Nintendo Switch''' – February 18, 2020
| internal = '''Android''': 1.14.30.2<br>
'''PS4''': 2.03<br>'''Windows 10''': 1.14.3002.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.3002.70
| server = 1.14.30.2 - 1.14.32.1
| serverdl = '''Server (1.14.30.2)''':<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.14.30.2.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.14.30.2.zip Linux]<br>
'''Server (1.14.32.1)''':<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.14.32.1.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.14.32.1.zip Linux]
| prevparent = 1.14.0
| prev = 1.14.21
| next = 1.14.41
| nextparent = 1.16.0
}}

'''1.14.30''' is a minor update to {{el|be}} released on February 11, 2020, which fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360039685691|title=Minecraft - 1.14.30 (Bedrock)|date=February 11, 2020}}</ref> While it was not the last update to 1.14, it was the last one before the beta builds of [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16.0]] started.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* 256x resolution packs are now restricted on Xbox One to prevent crashing.
* Fixed a crash that could occur in certain worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-59756}})

'''General'''
* Split screen now displays a message to join when the main controller is disconnected.
* Realms can no longer be purchased if not logged into Xbox Live.
* Players that are not linked to a Nintendo account on Switch are once again able to edit characters.
* Fixed an issue where joinable friends on Nintendo Switch were still visible after the world has been closed.

'''Gameplay'''
* Auto-jump no longer triggers unexpectedly when trying to walk through open doors. ({{bug|MCPE-52213}})

'''Blocks'''
* Restored kelp growth to its proper, faster rate. ({{bug|MCPE-57330}})
* Bamboo in flower pots are no longer empty after converting a world from Editions.

'''Items'''
* Crafting multiple honey blocks now returns the correct amount of empty glass bottles on a 2×2 grid. (Still not fully fixed) ({{bug|MCPE-58579}})

'''User interface'''
* The 'Sign In' button is now scaled properly on all platforms.
* Fixed placeholder text appearing on the pause menu when hosting a game without an internet connection.

'''Add-ons'''
* Entities no longer stop moving when the {{cd|circle_around_anchor}} behavior is added via a component group added by an event and/or there was a block close to their hitbox.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.14.30]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.14.30]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.14.30]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.14.30]]
[[pl:Bedrock Edition 1.14.30]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.14.30]]
[[ru:1.14.30 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.30]]