{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.19.0.24 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.19.0.24.png
|image3=Bedrock 1.19.0.24 (updated panorama).png
|image4=Bedrock 1.19.0.25.png
|type=Preview
|internal=;Beta
'''Windows''': 1.19.24.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.19.24.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.19.0.24<br>
'''Preview'''
'''Windows''': 1.19.25.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.19.25.70<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.0.25<br>
|parent=1.19.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS''': April 14, 2022
|prevparent=1.18.33
|prev=Preview 1.19.0.21
|next=Preview 1.19.0.27
|nextparent=1.19.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.0.24''' (Windows, Android, Xbox) or '''Preview 1.19.0.25''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the second beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.0]], released on April 14, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/5540500564365|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.0.24/25|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=April 14, 2022}}</ref> which adds [[echo shard]]s and [[recovery compass]]es, along with the [[Swift Sneak]] enchantment, the removal of [[copper horn]], and bug fixes.

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Echo Shard]]'''
* Currently cannot be found in survival.
* Can be used to craft [[recovery compass]]es.

'''[[Recovery Compass]]'''
* A new type of compass which can point to the last place where player died.
* Randomly spins if not held by a player, the player hasn't died, or when the player is not in the same dimension of the death point.
* Can be crafted with a [[compass]] surrounded by 8 echo shards.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchanting]]'''
* Added the [[Swift Sneak]] enchantment.
** Has three levels.
** Can be applied only on [[leggings]].
** Allow the player to walk faster while sneaking.
** Can be found in ancient city chests.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Mangrove Propagule]]'''
*Changed the model to match {{el|je}}.

'''[[Mud]]'''
* Now can convert into [[clay]] by placing mud above a block which has [[pointed dripstone]] underneath.

'''[[Reinforced Deepslate]]'''
* Can no longer be pushed by pistons.

'''[[Sculk Sensor]]'''
* Now drop experience when mined without Silk Touch.

'''[[Sculk Shrieker]]'''
* Added {{cd|can_summon}} blockstate, which determines it summon a [[warden]] or not.
** Set to {{cd|true}} by default for sculk shriekers placed via worldgen.
** Set to {{cd|false}} by default for sculk shriekers placed by a player or generated via sculk spread.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Allay]]'''
* Now have a health of {{hp|20}}, instead of {{hp|16}}.
* Now have a natural health regeneration of {{hp|2}} per second.

'''[[Wandering Trader]]'''
* Now sells 1 [[mangrove propagule]] for 5 [[emerald]]s.

'''[[Warden]]'''
* Wardens now can sniff players from further away (from 16 to 24 blocks).

=== World generation ===
'''[[Mangrove Swamp]]'''
* Biome size and placement now matches {{el|je}}.
* Mud now generates all the way from the surface down to stone.
* Tall mangroves are far more common than short mangroves now.
* [[Moss carpet]] now generates on top of some mangrove tree's roots.
* [[Tropical fish]] now spawn in water.
* Water color is now cyan instead of yellow like in the normal swamp.

=== General ===
'''Upgrading of old worlds'''
* Several improvements to level chunk blending to match {{el|je}}.

'''[[Panorama]]'''
* Changed to reflect [[The Wild Update]], showing a mangrove swamp.
** The changes are not shown due to the beta/preview panorama showing instead.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Vanilla Experiments" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===
==== Items ====
'''[[Copper Horn]]s'''
* Removed from the game.

'''[[Goat Horn]]s'''
* Sounds played with the tooting animation is now instant.
* Removed the "Fly" and "Dream" sound variant.
* More goat horn variations can be found inside [[pillager outpost]]s chest.

== Fixes ==
'''Sculk Shrieker'''
* Tweaked the shrieking particles of the sculk shrieker. ({{bug|MCPE-153007}})
* Sculk shriekers should not be triggered by redstone activation.
* Added {{cd|can_summon}} blockstate to sculk shriekers that determines whether a shrieker can trigger a warden to spawn. Only sculk shriekers placed during world generation in the deep dark and ancient cities have this state set to true. ({{bug|MCPE-153801}})
* Running away from a sculk shrieker during shrieking is no longer a viable way of preventing the summoning of a warden.
* The Sculk shrieker no longer attempts to spawn the Warden in Peaceful mode.
* The Sculk shrieker now spreads the highest threat level among players in the vicinity, not the threat level of the closest player.

'''Warden'''
* Warden now has a hurt animation when taking damage. ({{bug|MCPE-153575}})
* Fixed a bug where the warden's ribcage UVs were overlapping their right tendril UVs. ({{bug|MCPE-153797}})
* Warden now prioritize players over mobs when angry.
* Improved warden suspect tracking gameplay behavior, and increased the warden's "sniff" range.
* Spawning a warden in Creative mode no longer applies the Darkness effect to the player. ({{bug|MCPE-153536}})

'''Reinforced Deepslate'''
* Reinforced deepslate can no longer be pushed by pistons. ({{bug|MCPE-153548}})

'''Frog'''
* Froglight and frogspawn blocks now have new sounds. ({{bug|MCPE-153195}}, {{bug|MCPE-153193}})
* "Frog Spawn" is now called "Frogspawn". ({{bug|MCPE-153210}})

'''Goat Horn'''
* Goat Horn sound is now instant.
* Added goat horn variations to the pillager outposts.

'''Touch Controls'''
* Player can now change hotbar item slot while in a boat. ({{bug|MCPE-153762}})

'''Allay'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur if a non-owner player takes an item from the allay while it was chasing its owner.
* The allay now regenerates two health each second.

'''Boat with Chest'''
* The group of boats with chests now has the correct translation in inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-153345}})
* Mangrove boat with chest now has a crafting recipe. ({{bug|MCPE-153738}})

'''Mud Bricks'''
* Crafting mud bricks now correctly gives four mud bricks from one craft.

'''Gameplay'''
* Set stack limit for brewing station result slot to 1, as to avoid getting input stacks being overwritten when the brew is complete.
* Fix crash in block_placer component when the block parameter is an unknown block.
* Blocks affected by gravity now fall correctly on replaceable blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-152937}})
* Slabs can now be placed continuously. ({{bug|MCPE-151887}})

'''General'''
* Fixed an issue where clicking on the top row of pixels of a button in the new Create New World screen didn't properly trigger its action. ({{bug|MCPE-153239}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed a bug causing the fire animation to flicker when the player is standing in a lava cauldron while in creative mode. ({{bug|MCPE-148999}})

'''Items'''
* Fixed incorrect names for white dye, black dye, brown dye, and blue dye. ({{bug|MCPE-153522}})

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed enchantment option on Pocket UI Profile not being displayed.

'''Technical'''
* Command selectors now correctly identify players by name instead of their name tag.
* Title commands fired before a client was done joining now show instead of being ignored.
* The {{cd|is_moving}} filter now returns the correct value when an actor is moving.
* Avoid crashes on certain devices when parsing Molang expressions with many OR or AND operators.
* Tie consume animation to consume duration.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.0 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.0.24]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.0.24]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.0.25]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.0.25]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.0.24]]