{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.11.0.1.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.11.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>February 21, 2019
|prevparent=1.10.1
|next=beta 1.11.0.3
|nextparent=1.11.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.11.0.1''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0]], released on February 21, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360024285231-Minecraft-Beta-1-11-0-1-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.11.0.1 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=February 21, 2019}}</ref> which adds [[illager banner]]s, [[illager captain]]s, [[pillager patrol]]s, [[raid]]s, and the [[Bad Omen]] and [[Hero of the Village]] [[status effect]]s.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Banner|Illager banners]]'''
* A unique type of banner dropped by [[illager captain]]s.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Illager captain]]s'''
* Spawn in [[illager patrol|pillager patrol]]s, [[raid]]s, and around [[pillager outpost]]s
* Are [[pillager]]s, [[vindicator]]s or [[evoker]]s that wear [[illager banner]]s on their heads.
* Give the player the [[Bad Omen]] status effect when killed.

=== Game play ===
'''[[Pillager patrol]]s'''
* A group of 2–5 random [[illager]]s that spawn in the world.
* One of the illagers are a [[illager captain]].

'''[[Raid]]s'''
* Triggered when a player enters a village with the [[Bad Omen]] status effect applied to them.
* A large group of [[illager|pillager]]s that come to attack [[village]]s and kill the [[villager]]s.
* Mobs appear in waves – the amount of mobs and length of waves is increased per Bad Omen level.
* A raid boss bar shows the player how many enemies are left.
* A sound similar to a battle horn goes off before each raid wave.

'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* Added {{EffectLink|Bad Omen revision 1|Bad Omen|link=Bad Omen}} and {{EffectLink|Hero of the Village revision 1|Hero of the Village|link=Hero of the Village}} status effects.
** Hero of the Village is currently unused.

'''[[Sounds]]'''
* Added new sounds for [[bell]]s, [[campfire]]s, [[grindstone]]s, [[lantern]]s, [[raid]]s, [[ravager]]s, and [[sweet berry bush]]es.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Updated the villager [[trading]] UI for pocket and classic UI profiles.
* Added villager economy supply system:
** The supply of trades is only restored when the villager is given the opportunity to work at their job site block.
** When the villager's trades are restored to full, it takes whatever supply was used up (number of trades), and converts that into a price increase called "demand". Demand goes up by the amount of supply used, and down by the amount of supply not used.
** When villagers make trades, they gain [[experience]]. When they gain enough experience, they level up. Leveling up unlocks new trades, which are locked until the villager is at the appropriate level.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]]s, [[bell]]s, [[blast furnace]]s, [[composter]]s, [[smoker]]s, and [[stonecutter]]s'''
* Added functionality.

'''[[Cartography table]]s and [[grindstone]]s'''
* Added functionality.
* Can now be crafted with multiple wood types.

'''[[Campfire]]s'''
* Updated texture and model.
* Added smoke [[particles]], [[sounds]], and extinguishing.
* Added [[smelting|cooking]] functionality.
* Added missing recipes.

'''[[Lectern]]s'''
* Lecterns holding a [[book]] now emit a [[redstone]] signal when a page is turned.

'''[[Stonecutter]]s'''
* Moved all stonecutter recipes to the normal recipe list with tags.

'''[[Wood]], [[stripped wood]], and [[stripped log]]s'''
* Added missing recipes.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Evoker]]s, [[pillager]]s, and [[vex]]es'''
* No longer attack baby villagers.

'''[[Ravager|Illager beasts]]'''
* Renamed illager beast to ravager.
* Added ravager bite and roar attacks.
* Ravagers now get stunned when their attack is blocked.
* Ravagers can now be ridden by [[vindicator]]s and [[pillager]]s
* Added sounds for the ravager.
* Now destroy [[crop]]s and [[leaves]], and avoid [[cacti]] and [[sweet berry bush]]es.
* No longer attack baby villagers.

'''[[Iron golem]]s'''
* Now properly spawn in [[pillager outpost]] cages.
* An iron golem now spawns in each [[village]].

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Old villagers in existing worlds now convert to new villagers.
* Villagers no longer teleport through or get stuck in walls when trying to sleep.
* Farmers now choose their profession based on [[composter]] blocks rather than [[farmland]] blocks.

'''[[Vindicator]]s'''
* Can now break down [[door]]s.
* No longer attack baby villagers.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Jungle#Bamboo Jungle|Bamboo forests]]'''
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Pillager outpost]]s'''
* Gray banners now generate instead of black banners.
* Are now less common.
* Are no longer embedded in the ground too much.

'''[[Village]]s'''
* Village [[chest]]s now all contain [[chest loot|loot]].

=== General ===
'''Map making and [[add-on]]s'''
* Added data-driven [[furnace]] recipes.
** Custom furnace recipes can be added to the game using JSON.
** Furnace recipes are one per file, like other craft recipes.
** Added tags to furnace recipes and made the UI screens use them to filter the recipes down.
* Recipes now have tags so they can be filtered by crafting type.
* [[Leash]] positions now use vanilla positions if not specified in the pack.
* Baby [[zombie pigmen]] now properly scale their sword in [[Marketplace]] content.
* Sound-event is now displayed in the scripting documentation.
* Renamed blocks in [[resource pack]]s now keep their custom names.

'''[[Particles]]'''
* Removed all the particles including prefix {{code|example_}}.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when enabling texel anti-aliasing.
* Fixed a crash that could occur if a villager trade was too expensive.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning a villager in the Luxury Life Marketplace pack.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when generating the new villages.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trading with the wandering trader.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when replacing a world with an unsynced world.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading in mob geometry.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when interacting with villagers with custom trades.

'''General'''
* Global resource packs now stay applied even after restarting the game.
* The shield hotbar item now only shakes when durability is lost.
* The fishing float now sits slightly higher in water. ({{bug|MCPE-32976}})
* The "Treasure Hunter" achievement now unlocks when the map is placed in the off-hand slot. ({{bug|MCPE-33382}})
* Global resource reset message now shows up if the load screen is taking too long on some devices.
* The "No Available Space" message no longer shows unexpectedly when downloading Marketplace bundles.
* Renamed empty maps now stay named after becoming a filled map.

'''Gameplay'''
* Players on split-screen no longer have limited visibility underwater. ({{bug|MCPE-39539}})
* Scaffolding that is placed over the void now supports the player. ({{bug|MCPE-38064}})
* Chorus fruits now play the teleporting sound properly after players eat them. 
* Farmer villagers no longer produce infinite amounts of bread after players give them certain items. ({{bug|MCPE-33608}})
* Signs can now be used as fuel in furnaces.
* Players can now climb vines and ladders using the jump button again.
* Lightning no longer has a downward area of effect when hitting blocks, therefore, no longer striking mobs sheltering underneath blocks.
* Creative players no longer get additional buckets when collecting water or lava.
* Renaming items using an anvil no longer increases the prior work penalty. ({{bug|MCPE-36931}})
* Sweet berry bushes no longer supply infinite amounts of berries. ({{bug|MCPE-41211}})

'''World generation'''
* Fixed mineshaft generation to no longer generate in a giant cluster that causes them to cross over each other, and should more closely resemble those found in the Java Edition. ({{bug|MCPE-28485}})
* Mesa plateau biomes now generate more like those in the Java Edition.

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed panda eating animation being too slow. ({{bug|MCPE-40743}})
* Shulker shells now have a greater chance to drop with a bigger amount when shulkers are killed with swords with a looting enchantment applied. ({{bug|MCPE-39893}})
* Vexes no longer attack baby villagers.
* Vindicators no longer become passive when renamed. ({{bug|MCPE-27927}})
* Fixed baby villagers showing their trades when a player holds a certain item in their hand.
* Fixed guardians being able to spawn out of the water. ({{bug|MCPE-39941}})
* Fixed villager scheduling: Villagers now spend less time standing around doing nothing.
* Grass, bell, and trapdoor placement fixes.
* Village town centers now generate at or above water level.
* Sand blocks now have supportive sandstone blocks underneath.
* Fixed a bug causing some village elements to be buried underground.
* Balanced the number of job sites generated in villages.
* Flowing water is no longer generated in villages.
* Lava in village blacksmiths is no longer a fire hazard.
* Animals can spawn in villages again.
* Fixed the rotation of terracotta blocks.
* Balanced sea pickle generation.
* Bell block and crop block fixes.
* Fixed an issue with snow layer generation.
* Fixed an issue with ravines near desert villages.
* Playful pandas no longer roll into dangerous blocks when spawned.
* Fixed a bug related to the polar bear attack animation.
* Fixed polar bear hitbox being offset, and is positioned properly when riding a boat. ({{bug|MCPE-41299}})
* Fixed wither boss armor geometry.
* Creepers now flash white during their pre-explosion animation. ({{bug|MCPE-41258}})
* Fixed polar bear model size being too small.
* Snow golems now take damage when walking over campfires. 
* Creepers can now spawn in a 1.8 high space. ({{bug|MCPE-24120}})
* Farmers and librarians now properly go to work.
* Villager work goal is properly cleaned up between schedule changes.
* Fixed villager work goal to have a cooldown, max active time, and better ranges.
* Villagers no longer get launched when waking up from their beds.

'''Blocks'''
* Grindstones can no longer support scaffolding.
* Grass now spreads to normal dirt blocks, not coarse dirt. ({{bug|MCPE-41198}})  

'''Items'''
* Renamed firework stars and firework rockets now display their new names.
* Leather horse armor is now properly colored. ({{bug|MCPE-40124}})
* Banners no longer render as wall variants when held. ({{bug|MCPE-41228}})
* Shields held in the off-hand are no longer upside-down.  ({{bug|MCPE-41221}})

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed issues with the armorer and cleric textures.
* Fixed armorer villager arm texture.
* Surrounded leaves are now the correct color.

'''User interface'''
* Items can now be split if they are spread in a crafting grid on touch devices.
* Stonecutters now only make a noise when there's something to take.

'''Commands'''
* Different cauldron types no longer overwrite each other in the player's inventory when using the {{cmd|give}} command.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* A component group is now correctly removed on the second activation of {{cd|minecraft:damage_sensor}}.
* Target selectors are no longer case-specific.
* Scoreboard scores are no longer saved earlier than other information when exiting a world.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.1]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.11.0.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.11.0.1]]
[[ru:Beta 1.11.0.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.0.1]]