{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| image = Bedrock 1.20.20.20 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.20.20.20.png
| build = 16310717
| editorver = 0.4.0
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.20.2020.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.20.20.20<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.20.2020.70<br>
| server = 1.20.20.20
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
952002020（armeabi-v7a，33）<br>
962002020（x86，33）<br>
972002020（arm64-v8a，33）<br>
982002020（x86_64，33）<br>
| date = June 28, 2023
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.20.20.zip Windows]<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.20.20.20.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.20.30
| prevparent = 1.20.15
| prev =
| next = Preview 1.20.20.21
| nextparent = 1.20.31
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.20.20.20''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.20.20.20''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the first beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.30]]{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.20.20 is not a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.20.30|1.20.30]].<ref>{{tweet|cornerhardmc|1691973191923806387|We're actually going to move all the 1.20.20 changes into 1.20.30. More info to come in an upcoming changelog.|August 16, 2023}}</ref>}}, released on June 28, 2023<ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/17151426531085-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-20-20-20</ref>, which brings more parity from {{JE}} and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Technical ===
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Added support for the <code>allow_random_seed</code> option in world template manifests.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* Released the following components out of experimental in JSON formats 1.20.20 and higher:
** <code>minecraft:hand_equipped</code> item component.
** <code>minecraft:use_duration</code> item component.
** <code>minecraft:stacked_by_data</code> item component.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Leaves|Cherry Leaves]]'''
* Now generate particle effects at a relatively large distance based on system performance.

'''[[Snow]]'''
* Different layers of snow have different heights to match {{JE}}.

==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|scriptevent}}'''
* Now is no longer behind the "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.

'''[[Amethyst Cluster]]'''
* Now uses the <code>minecraft:block_face</code> [[block state]] instead of <code>facing_direction</code>.
** <code>minecraft:block_face</code> uses six string values <code>["down", "up", "north", "south", "east", "west"]</code>.

'''[[Slab]]s'''
* Now uses the <code>minecraft:vertical_half</code> [[block state]] instead of <code>top_slot_bit</code>. 
** <code>minecraft:vertical_half</code> uses two string values <code>["bottom", "top"]</code>.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Sneaking]]'''
* Now player gets forced out of sneak when riding.

=== General ===
'''[[Inventory|Creative Inventory]]'''
* Removed the [[suspicious stew]] from the [[Creative]] inventory.

'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Changed the in-game logo for ''[[Minecraft Preview]]''.

'''[[Settings]]'''
* Changed "Joystick Always Visible" to "Joystick Visibility Option" dropdown.
* Changed "Sneak Toggle" to "Sneak" dropdown.
* Moved "Sync Old World" button to the save screen.

'''General'''
* The ''[[Minecraft Preview]]'' application icon has been changed from a [[grass block]] to [[dirt]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Villager]]'''
* When killed they no longer drop items held in their hands.

'''[[Wandering Trader]]'''
* Now can sell 1 [[Sapling|cherry sapling]] for 5 [[emerald]]s.

'''[[Zombie Villager]]'''
* Now displays their rank in appearance.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Falling Block]] '''
* Now break when falling onto a [[boat]].

=== Technical ===
'''[[Server]]'''
* Linux dedicated server: Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) is now the minimum supported version of Ubuntu. Ubuntu 18.04 LTS is no longer supported.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* Deprecate <code>minecraft:creative_category</code> component in JSON formats 1.20.20 and higher.
* Creative group and command visibility can now be set in the <code>description</code> field in JSON formats 1.20.20 and higher.
* Changed fire enchant duration used on projectiles from a <code>ShooterItemComponent</code> to match vanilla behavior.
* Sound definitions now accept both float and integer values for <code>min_distance</code> and <code>max_distance</code>.
* Render controllers without textures now result in a content error and are ignored.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Crawling", "Recipe Unlocking", and "Beta APIs" experimental toggles.
=== Changes ===
==== Command format ====
'''{{cmd|recipe}}'''
* Updated the syntax to match {{JE}}.
** Old syntax:
*** <code>/recipe <victim: target> give <recipe: string></code>
*** <code>/recipe <victim: target> take <recipe: string></code>
** New syntax:
*** <code>/recipe give <victim: target> <recipe: string></code>
*** <code>/recipe take <victim: target> <recipe: string></code>
* Now the recipes are suggested by the [[command]] auto-complete.
* Now an output message appears after the command is executed.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Crawling]]'''
* Now player gets forced out of crawl when riding.

'''[[Recipe book]]'''
* Updated the recipe notification sound to match {{JE}}.
* Now the duration of the recipe notifications are calculated based on how many recipes got unlocked.

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Now is displayed a message when the players presses the camera perspective change button but a particular perspective is already set via the {{cmd|camera}} [[command]].

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Converted <code>set_block_property</code> to <code>set_block_state</code> for custom blocks.
* Added <code>defineVector</code> to <code>DynamicPropertiesDefinition</code>.
* <code>EntityEquipmentInventoryComponent</code>
** Implemented slot ''validation'' for <code>setEquipment</code>, which now returns a boolean indicating whether the item can be equipped to the specified slot.
** <code>EntityEquipmentInventoryComponent</code> is currently limited to players only.
*** Moved <code>getDay</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Moved <code>getTimeOfDay</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Moved <code>setTimeOfDay(timeOfDay: number | TimeOfDay)</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Moved <code>getAbsoluteTime</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Moved <code>setAbsoluteTime(absoluteTime: number)</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved <code>TimeOfDay</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Added length restrictions to <code>setLore</code> - Up to <code>20</code> lines with up to <code>50</code> characters per line.
*** Moved function <code>setLore</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Moved function <code>getLore</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Moved class <code>SystemAfterEvents</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
*** Moved class <code>ScriptEventCommandMessageAfterEvent</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved player <code>onScreenDisplay</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved <code>titleDisplayOptions</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.
** Moved <code>screenDisplay</code> to <code>1.4.0</code>.

'''[[JSON]]'''
* Removed the <code>minecraft:ignores_permission</code> component.
* Removed the <code>minecraft:mirrored_art</code> component.
* Moved the <code>protection</code> field from <code>minecraft:armor</code> component to <code>minecraft:wearable</code> component in JSON formats 1.20.20 and higher. 
* Deprecate <code>minecraft:armor</code> component in JSON formats 1.20.20 and higher.
* Removed ''nonfunctional'' and ''redundant'' slot options from <code>minecraft:wearable</code> component, ie. mainhand, hotbar, inventory, enderchest, and equippable.
* Items with the <code>minecraft:wearable</code> component using the <code>weapon.offhand</code> slot no longer equips when the item is used in the hotbar.
* Equipping custom wearable items trigger generic equip sound.
* Custom items with <code>minecraft:wearable</code> component can now be equipped by clicking and dragging in inventory or shift-clicking.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.20.20.20 Preview
|;old
|33139|No anvil step sound.
|43402|Trident channeling sound is unused.
|43831|Trident w/loyalty doesn't make the returning sound to the player but the Trident.
|50609|Missing sounds when a hostile mob shoots arrows or throws trident.
|60024|Snow layer collision changes only twice.
|80924|Adult zombie villagers use the farmer texture regardless of their actual profession.
|94722|Nether portal make no breaking animation or sound when obsidian is broken.
|123488|Big dripleaf tilting up sounds uses tilt down sounds instead.
|128117|No sound when conduit deactivates.
|136484|Respawn anchor ambient sound doesn't play.
|154378|min_distance / max_distance requires decimal numbers, silently fails with integers.
|159736|Duplicating stackable armor when equipping from hotbar.
|162061|See transparent blocks through end portal off a chunk border.
|163671|Xbox: Mouse movement is jittery / pixel-based / not smooth.
|164634|My Minecraft world keeps crashing when I approach a specific area.
|;From v1.20.0
|170841|Camera speed ​​difference when crawling or using riptide parity.
|171521|Wandering trader does not trade cherry saplings.
|;From v1.20.10
|170870|Crawl mode don't get disabled when riding.
|170907|When switching to a spectator, the player does not stop sneaking or crawling.
|170994|Crawl parity issue.
|171065|{{cmd|recipe}} doesn't send a chat output when correct syntax is entered.
|171086|Entering {{cmd|recipe}} command doesn't show suggestions.
|171098|{{cmd|recipe}} command syntax doesn't match {{JE}}.
|171116|The "Recipe Unlock Toast" sound does not match {{JE}}.
|171797|The player can enable flight mode while flying the elytra.
|171800|Pick blocking a decorated pot from the creative inventory gives invalid inventory description.
|171812|Spectators still adapt to small spaces.
|otherissuescount=6
|171225|<nowiki>Players suffocate while crawling at Y=1 and Y=2</nowiki>}}
'''Others'''
* Empty maps now emit the appropriate sound when players draw them.
* The third-person camera no longer clips through terrain when near water or lava.
* Fixed Creative mode players not being ignited when standing in fire.
* The player no longer gets forced into sneak or crawl during the riptide animation.
* Players should no longer accidentally trigger crawling when they shouldn't.
* Fixed bottom face of portal effect so its color and transparency match the other faces.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{fnlist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.20.30 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.20.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.20.20.20]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 프리뷰 1.20.20.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.20.20.20]]
[[uk:Preview 1.20.20.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.20.20.20]]