{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.01}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock Beta 1.14.0.1.png
|image2=Bedrock 1.14.0.1.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.14.1.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.1.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.14.0.1<br>
|date='''Xbox One and Windows 10:''' October 9, 2019<br/>'''Android:''' October 12, 2019<ref>{{tweet|JDavidFries|1182838092354342912|Bananas are slippery things. The latest Minecraft Android Beta (1.14.0.1) is rolling out now. Apologies for the delay.|October 12, 2019}}</ref>
|parent=1.14.0
|prevparent=1.13.3
|next=beta 1.14.0.2
|nextparent=1.14.0.12
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.14.0.1''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.0]], released on October 9–12, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360034989811-Minecraft-Beta-1-14-0-1-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.14.0.1 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=October 9, 2019}}</ref> which adds [[bee]]s and bee-related items.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beehive]]s'''
* Crafted with [[planks]] and [[honeycomb]]s.
* Function the same as bee nests, but do not need a [[Silk Touch]] enchanted [[tool]] to be dropped.

'''[[Bee nest]]s'''
* Spawn naturally in [[flower forest]]s, [[plains]], and [[sunflower plains]] biomes.
* Can house up to 3 [[bee]]s.
* Fill up with [[honey]].
** Have a max [[honey]] level of 5.
* Can be obtained by using a [[Silk Touch]] enchanted [[tool]].

'''[[Honeycomb block]]s'''
* Crafted with 9 [[honeycomb]]s.
* Are purely decorative.

'''[[Honey block]]s'''
* Crafted with 4 [[honey bottle]]s.
* Drastically reduce movement speed and jump height.
* Can be climbed down, and will drag anything on them when moved by a [[piston]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Honey bottle]]s'''
* Restore 6 hunger points and 5 saturation points, as well as remove the [[Poison]] effect when consumed.
* Can be used to craft [[sugar]] and [[honey block]]s.
* Obtained by using a bottle on full [[beehive]]s and [[bee nest]]s.

'''[[Honeycomb]]s'''
* Obtained by using [[shears]] on full [[beehive]]s and [[bee nest]]s.
* Can be used to craft [[beehive]]s and [[honeycomb block]]s.

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Added [[bee]] [[spawn egg]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Bee]]s'''
* Have 10 health.
* Live in groups near hives and nests.
** If a [[bee]] does not have a home nest, it will wander around until it finds one.
* Can be bred using any [[flower]].
* Attack in a swarm if provoked.
** When they attack, they give [[Poison]] to the target and die shortly after.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Can now fill [[glass bottle]]s with [[water]] or [[honey bottle|honey]].
* Can now shear [[honeycomb]]s.

=== Items ===
'''[[Lead]]s'''
* Can now be used on [[dolphin]]s, [[ocelot]]s, [[parrot]]s, [[polar bear]]s and old [[Villager/Before Village & Pillage|villager]]s. ({{bug|MCPE-46866}})

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Are now sorted alphabetically in the [[Creative]] inventory.

=== General ===
'''[[Experience]]'''
* Tweaked the amount of experience dropped by [[animal]]s to match {{el|je}}.

'''[[Title Screen|Menu screen]]'''
* Changed the title screen background to reflect bees and items related to them.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.

'''Performance'''
* Fixed an issue with kelp growth causing lag in specific chunks. ({{bug|MCPE-50175}})

'''General'''
* Fixed the breaking animation for glass on certain packs.
* Capes now appear correctly in the skin picker.
* Fixed an issue that was preventing the "Beam Me Up" achievement from being obtained. ({{bug|MCPE-21425}})
* Fixed an issue with that caused some skins to show a solid white cape. ({{bug|MCPE-52005}})
* Fixed a render distance issue that could cause an old style (limited) world to not load correctly if a player logged out in a specific corner of that world.
* Fixed an issue that was causing some capes to not scale to skins correctly in the character creator.
* Fixed an issue that would cause some selections in the character creator to become unresponsive.
* Fixed an issue that was causing scripting error messages to show on the Alien Worlds Marketplace pack.

'''Gameplay'''
* Minecart sounds now load and play correctly.
* Waterlogged blocks are no longer ticked by other redstone circuits in the same chunk. 
* Armor can once again be equipped correctly from the creative inventory on touch screen devices. ({{bug|MCPE-52413}})
* Fixed an issue that was causing the crossbow to fire immediately after being loaded. ({{bug|MCPE-52179}})
* The Frost Walker enchantment once again freezes water correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-52788}})
* Fixed a bug that could cause players to fall from the sky after riding an entity in creative. ({{bug|MCPE-52957}})
* Arrows or tridents no longer fall through the ground after being deflected by a shield. ({{bug|MCPE-44721}})
* Farmland blocks once again revert into a dirt block when the player jumps on them.
* Placing armor on an armor stand in Creative no longer equips it on the player as well.

'''Mobs'''
* Reduced the fox attack radius to match the ''Java Edition''.
* Items held by foxes are no longer invisible. ({{bug|MCPE-51993}})
* Horses now use the correct (newer) model again.
* Improved the accuracy of pathfinding for flying mobs.

'''Items'''
* The compass and clock are now animated correctly again when in the hotbar. ({{bug|MCPE-52901}})

'''User interface'''
* Equipped carpets now appear correctly in the llama inventory again.

'''Add-ons and script engine'''
* The boss health bar now shows correctly when creating custom wither entities. 
* Custom entities once again show the health bar correctly while being ridden.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.1]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.14.0.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.0.1]]
[[ko:Bedrock Edition 베타 1.14.0.1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.14.0.1]]
[[ru:Beta 1.14.0.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.0.1]]