{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.10.0.3 banner.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.10.0.3.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.10.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>January 30, 2019
|prevparent=1.9.0
|prev=
|next=beta 1.10.0.4
|nextparent=1.10.1
}}

'''Beta 1.10.0.3''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]], released on January 30, 2019,<ref>{{link|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360022448772-Minecraft-Beta-1-10-0-3-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.10.0.3 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=January 30, 2019}}</ref><onlyinclude> which adds the [[wandering trader]], [[illager beast]], [[composter]]s, [[stonecutter]]s, [[campfire]]s, [[lectern]]s, and the [[loom]].

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Composter]]s'''
* Currently have no functionality.
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

'''[[Campfire]]s'''
* Currently have no functionality.
* Available through Experimental Gameplay.

'''[[Lectern]]s'''
* Placing a book and quill or written book on the lectern allows multiple players to read it together.
* A book and quill can be read, but not edited when placed on a lectern.

'''[[Loom]]'''
* Used to easily make patterns for banners.

'''New [[stonecutter]]'''
* Currently has no functionality.
* Available through Experimental Gameplay.

'''[[Sweet berry bush]]es'''
* Can be found in {{BiomeLink|Taiga}} and {{BiomeLink|Snowy Taiga}} biomes.
* Can be planted from sweet berries.
* Have 4 growth stages.
* Drop 2-3 sweet berries when harvested.
* Available through Experimental Gameplay.

'''[[Jigsaw Block]]s'''
* Currently have no functionality.
* Can only be obtained via an inventory editor.

=== Items ===
'''[[Banner pattern]]s'''
* Crafted using the [[Loom]].
* 6 types of banner patterns: Creeper Charge, Flower Charge, Skull Charge, Thing, Field Masoned, and Bordure Indented.

'''[[Sweet berries]]'''
* Collected from sweet berry bushes.
* Can be eaten, restoring {{hunger|2}} hunger points.
* Can be planted into the ground and grown into sweet berry bushes.

'''[[Shield]]s'''
* New tool that can be used to block most incoming attacks.
* Sneaking or mounting a mob activates the shield when equipped in either hand.
* Crafted with 6 [[planks]] and 1 [[iron ingot]].

'''[[Spawn Eggs]]'''
* [[Wandering Trader]].
* [[Ravager|Illager Beast]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Cat]] skins'''
* Added Jellie, the community cat contest winner.

'''[[Ravager|Illager beast]]s'''
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* Currently only have the basic AI.
* Currently still named Illager Beast.

'''[[Wandering trader]]s'''
* A type of villager that appears at a village's gathering site periodically and stays for a period of 2–3 in-game days (40–60 minutes of real-life time). This trader offers items from a wide variety of different biomes, random dyes, and other rare materials.
* Accompanied by a [[Trader Llama|custom llama]].
* Available through Experimental Gameplay.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Pillager outpost]]s'''
* Generate in the same biomes as villages, and pillagers will respawn around the tower.
* Can be located using {{cmd|locate pillageroutpost}}
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* Can generate with a tall foundation.
* Generate with black [[banner]]s, instead of illager banners.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bell]]s'''
* Improved and added placement features.

'''[[Blast furnace]]s, [[grindstone]]s, and [[smoker]]s'''
* Added crafting recipe.

'''[[Cartography table]]s and [[barrel]]s'''
* Added crafting recipe.

'''[[Chorus flower]]s'''
* Now break when shot with an arrow.

'''[[Crop]]s and [[nether wart]]s'''
* Now have placement sounds.

'''[[Dead bush]]es'''
* Can now be used as fuel.

'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Dispensers with shears in them can now shear sheep.

'''[[Lantern]]s'''
* Can now be properly attached to the bottom or the top of blocks.
* Added crafting recipe.
* Now have animated textures.

'''[[Leaves]]'''
* Now have a chance to drop sticks when decaying.

'''[[Wet sponge]]s'''
* Dry out immediately when placed in [[the Nether]].

'''[[Wood]] and [[stripped wood]]'''
* Are no longer unused.
* Can now be crafted with 4 [[log]]s or [[stripped log]]s.

'''[[Carpet|White carpet]]s'''
* Can now be dyed directly in the crafting table.

=== Items ===
'''[[Beetroot soup]] and [[rabbit stew]]'''
* Now have shapeless crafting recipes.

'''[[Crossbow]]s'''
* Are no longer available only through [[Experimental Gameplay]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Cat]]s'''
* Are now healed when fed [[raw cod]] and [[raw salmon]].

'''[[Creeper]]s'''
* Now drop a [[music disc]] when killed by a [[stray]].

'''[[Pillager]]s'''
* Are no longer hidden under [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* Added new sounds. ({{bug|MCPE-39111}})

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Split into 2 different mobs.
** New villagers spawn in new villages.
* New villager behavior:
** Implemented some of the new villager schedule behaviors.
** Implemented new villager sleep behaviors.
** Villagers may now wander to the village outskirts.
** Villagers will attempt to find a door when it rains during the day, but will navigate to their bed at night.
** Updated and improved pathfinding.
** Villagers now have a visual based trading system, and will hold up the item they wish to trade.
** Villagers have new clothing to indicate their level, profession, and biome.
** Villagers will now mingle together around gathering sites in the village.
** Librarians will inspect bookshelves.
* Added Mason and green-robed villagers.
** Villagers can change professions depending on the job site blocks available in the village.
** Can claim beds and job site blocks.
** Villagers can now interact with the corresponding job site block.
** Added Mason, green-coated (nitwit), and Unemployed (no-overlay) villager professions. 
* Old villagers spawn inside igloo basements with textures and behavior prior to [[Village & Pillage]].

'''[[Zombie villager]]s'''
* Split into 2 different mobs.
** New zombie villagers have biome-specific and profession skin layers.
** Old zombie villagers still spawn in [[igloo]] basements.

'''JSON'''
* Mob events and behavior can be scheduled using JSON.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Igloo]]s'''
* Now generate with a red bed.

'''[[Village]]s'''
* Have a new look, differing per biome.
* Added village job sites and gathering sites.
* Number of houses depend on beds.
* Taiga villages are now more common.
* Removed zombie villages, due to new village changes.
* Available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* Can be located with both {{cmd|locate village}} and {{cmd|locate newvillage}}.
** {{cmd|locate village}} is now not always guaranteed to locate a village, while {{cmd|locate newvillage}} always point to villages.
* No longer generate in Old world types.
* Meeting points generate with various bell types.
* Job and gathering sites, that villagers will mingle around together, generate in villages.
** Job sites can be built by players by placing a job site block in village boundaries.
* Most strongholds no longer generate under village wells - they now generate under village meeting points.
* Reduced the chance of strongholds generating under villages. <!--some stronghold still generate under village well (meeting point) but not as common as previous version-->.

=== General ===
'''[[Texture Update]]'''
* The new vanilla textures are now set as the default pack.

'''Data-driven animation'''
* Refactored the animation system to support hierarchical animation, and treat animations and animation controllers as 'animations'.
* Updated JSON with new animation support, upgraded schema for actor definition, and included upgrades for animation controllers and actor definitions.
* Converted sheep and pigs to the new animation system.
* Move locators to bones.
* Blend state transitions.
* Removed cod lead locator.
* Renamed {{cd|ActorAnimation|d=to|ActorSkeletalAnimation}}.
* Initial poly mesh support.
* Added TextureMesh geometry.
* Flipping data-driven entities test to enable new entities to use {{cd|bind_pose_rotation}}.
* Events now have defined data objects containing all event data.
* Added new villager animations.

'''Data-driven models'''
* Added default parenting to the Evoker nose, in line with over villager-derived mobs.

'''Entity scripting function'''
* Is no longer behind Experimental Gameplay.

'''Help'''
* Pressing help button links to the relevant how to play section.
* Updated the how to play section.

'''[[Particle]]s'''
* Can now be edited using standard JSON formatting.
* Renamed some particles include prefix {{cd|test_}} to {{cd|example_}}.
* Removed {{cd|test_mule}} and {{cd|test_sphere}}.

'''Permissions'''
* Improvements to the operator status and permission settings, with the added option to enable cheats or not.

'''[[Resource pack]]s'''
* Are now separate from world templates and can be updated independently in existing worlds.

'''Scripting system'''
* Players without scripting enabled now see an appropriate message if they try and join an incompatible server that has scripting enabled.
* Updating a player's position with scripting now correctly syncs with the player.
* Creating actors via script now avoids the spawning logic.
** This prevents hard-coded logic like ocelots spawning along with baby ocelots.
* Improved the message wording for players who get disconnected due to unsupported scripts.
* Allow events to fire without a defined event data object.
* Renaming Views to Actor/Entity Queries.
* Added sound events to the scripting API.
* Add Event Data to {{cd|load_ui}}.
* Custom UIs can now be made like regular in-game UI screens.
* Added 'Global Objects' to the scripting API.
* Refactored JavaScript object registration.
* Added the ability to enable and disable scripting error and warning logging.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when repeatedly attempting to cancel joining a multiplayer game. 
* Resource packs that are nested in an extra folder no longer cause the game to crash. 
* Stacking slabs to make a double slab no longer crashes the game.  
* Fixed a crash when trying to launch the marketplace packs "City Cars" and "Mineville Film Studios" on mobile devices.  
* Worlds no longer show single player only warning message when multiplayer is enabled. ({{bug|MCPE-39194}}) 
* Player position is now accurately saved when exiting and rejoining a world.
* Removing ticking areas from the game now correctly frees up used memory.
* The descend button now works correctly when underwater and using touch controls. 
* Turtles no longer levitate above the ground. 
* Optimized particles to improve performance. 
* Players are now informed if they are disconnected from Xbox Live when the Xbox console is resumed from standby.
* Looping UI animations no longer increase memory usage over time.
* Damage cooldown no longer hinders other mob attacks.
* Colored beacon beam textures no longer appear compressed.
* Wither skeletons and vex mobs can be renamed with nametags. ({{bug|MCPE-20701}}) 
* Horizontal scaffolding extensions can now be placed over non-solid blocks correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-39296}})  
* Fixed the head rotation of pigmen when non-standard texture packs are used. ({{bug|MCPE-40629}}) 
* 'Monster Egg' blocks are now named 'Infested blocks', to match the Java Edition.  
* Infested bricks mined with silk touch now drop as its non-infested variant.  
* Texture packs applied to a freshly created world are now displayed in the active list.  
* Players are prompted to redownload packs if they have been applied to a world but removed from the cache.  
* Armor stands can now hold unloaded crossbows. ({{bug|MCPE-39094}}) 
* It is now possible to climb through snow layers placed on top of scaffolding. ({{bug|MCPE-39324}}) 
* Pandas eating bamboo now show correctly colored food particles. ({{bug|MCPE-38285}}) 
* Strongholds now generate with the correct stair variants again. ({{bug|MCPE-39380}}) 
* Weapons held by armor stands are now the correct size. ({{bug|MCPE-39064}}) 
* Food held by pandas is now sized and positioned correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-39061}}) 
* Fixed a bug where players could respawn some distance away from their beds. ({{bug|MCPE-39261}}) 
* Fixed a bug where lava could hurt a player through block corners. ({{bug|MCPE-37726}}) 
* Fixed the pathfinding for zombies chasing villagers inside buildings. ({{bug|MCPE-37424}}) 
* Hanging banners no longer show as floor standing banner variants. ({{bug|MCPE-39507}}) 
* Scaffolding no longer gets left hanging unsupported when being placed rapidly. ({{bug|MCPE-38338}}) 
* Snow layers generate around grass and flowers again in snow biomes. ({{bug|MCPE-38018}}) 
* The correct amount of white terracotta now generates in mesa biomes. 
* Skeletons once again attack iron golems. 
* Mobs no longer spawn with heart particles.
* Added correct biome shading for water in bamboo jungles. 
* Cats can now be healed by feeding them fish.  
* Fixed a crash that could happen after running scripts for a long period of time.  
* The re-center button on Minecraft VR has been mapped to Y now instead of X. 
* Chest minecarts now drop their contents if destroyed with the {{cmd|kill}} command. 
* Global resource packs no longer show in the active packs list if they are not applied to a specific world.  
* Fixed a z-fighting texture issue on the grindstone block.  
* The new dye types can now be used to dye shulker mobs. ({{bug|MCPE-40279}}) 
* Fixed the wither's ranged and swoop attacks. ({{bug|MCPE-39773}}) 
* Multiple commands run from functions now run from the correct point of execution. ({{bug|MCPE-38983}} / {{bug|MCPE-39785}}) 
* The 'Unlock Template World Options' popup no longer has a placeholder type message. 
* Packs missing '{{cd|experimental_custom_ui}}' don't allow loading UI anymore.  
* '{{cd|minecraft:look_at}}' component now has consistent naming between scripting and JSON. 
* Upside-down Shulkers now have the correct opening animation. ({{bug|MCPE-40110}}) 
* Fixed the texture of food being eaten by pandas.
* Menu buttons no longer stay highlighted after being selected. ({{bug|MCPE-37640}}) 
* Fixed an issue related to scoreboard not showing the correct entries. 
* Passive mobs now spawn on the correct block types. ({{bug|MCPE-39727}}) 
* Mutated birch forest biomes now generate with extra tall birch trees again. ({{bug|MCPE-29698}}) 
* Players can no longer receive command feedback with cheats disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-39590}}) 
* Trapdoors in shipwrecks are now correctly rotated. 
* Cats now spawn correctly in previously generated villages.
* Fixed the issue with wrongly scaled textures that affected some Windows 10 users. ({{bug|MCPE-39081}}) 
* Fixed a bug that could cause the wrong description for Marketplace bundles. 
* "New" banner now shows correctly on all new marketplace items. 
* Fixed skeleton melee attack animation. 
* Fixed the bug that caused the FPS value in the beta header information to always read 0.0. ({{bug|MCPE-30536}}) 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when rejoining the game in the End dimension. 
* Fixed a bug that prevented the game from launching correctly on some devices. ({{bug|MCPE-39877}}) 
* Fix a crash that could sometimes occur when copying a large world on Switch. 
* Partially copied worlds will now show up in settings storage tab only. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using a jukebox on Nintendo Switch. 
* Fixed the spider leg animation in the Dwarven Mining Company marketplace map.  
* Fixed an issue on Xbox one that would disable LAN games when the user does not have multiplayer permissions.
* Fix issue of region filters not working if inside a custom spawn event.  
* Various fixes and improvements to the randomTickSpeed function.
* Graphics no longer become corrupted when disabling texel anti-aliasing on Nintendo Switch. ({{bug|MCPE-34820}}) 
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading the game. 
* Various fixes and improvements to the Marketplace sorting and search results. 
* Fixed an issue with screenshots taken in VR-mode. 
* Fixed an issue that could cause the user to get stuck on the 'Converting World' screen if the game is suspended.
* Players who are disconnected while downloading a multiplayer pack no longer get stuck on the saving world screen.  
* Fixed sleep goal so mobs can get in beds that have blocks on the sides. 
* Charging a crossbow with a firework rocket no longer briefly shows an arrow being loaded. ({{bug|MCPE-40745}}) 
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox if a user was not signed in correctly. 
* Tags that start with a percentage now display correctly.
* Cornflowers now render correctly in item frames.  
* Enabling 'Touch only affects the hotbar' on Nintendo Switch now works as expected: ({{bug|MCPE-38614}}) 
** Controller sensitivity setting (touching the screen no longer interferes with controller movement)​. 
** Removed increased build distance in creative including place/mine tooltips.​ 
* When the last hotbar slot selected, touching the screen no longer switches to the 8th slot. 
* Fixed an issue that could cause a crash when downloading a large world on Nintendo Switch. 
* Fixed a bug where kelp would grow in horizontal flowing water. ({{bug|MCPE-37155}}) 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when entering a portal on some servers.  
* Fixed an issue that could cause lighting issues in chunks when flying around. 
* Cats are no longer tempted by food when they are too far from the player.  
* Fixed wither skeleton model geometry issue that was affecting some marketplace content. 
* Using scoreboard selectors no longer adds extra characters to player names.
* Fixed animations for cow and parrot mobs. 
* Ender dragon attacks now show a particle trail.  
* Mobs can no longer destroy paintings if mob griefing is disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-38916}}) 
* Script queries no longer show error messages when detecting dropped item entities. ({{bug|MCPE-40437}}) 
* Fixed a bug with converted worlds on Nintendo Switch that prevented cross platform multiplayer. ({{bug|MCPE-34641}}) 
* Renamed ‘{{code|player_attacked_actor}}’ scripting event to ‘{{code|player_attacked}}’. 
* Scripting can now be used to attach particles to mobs correctly.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading large world templates. 
* Reduced the number of drowned mob spawning. ({{bug|MCPE-34032}}) 
* Firework stars no longer appear black in Creative inventory. 
* The scripting event '{{cd|entity_created}}' will now fire correctly. 
* Fixed an issue with the scripting event '{{cd|isValidEntity}}' not working as expected. 
* Fixed the '{{cd|damage_sensor}}' scripting component that was not working as expected.
* Existing armor stands no longer turn white. 
* Fixed an issue with the black and pink missing texture icon that would sometimes appear in the marketplace.  
* Fixed a bug that could cause missing textures if the player suspended the game while it is still loading. 
* Fixed an issue with the sword held by the vex mob.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}
== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.10.0.3]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.10.0.3]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.10.0.3]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.10.0.3]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.10.0.3]]
[[ru:Beta 1.10.0.3 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.10.0.3]]