{{Infobox version
| title = v1.19.30
| vernum = 1.19.30
| server = 1.19.30.04
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.3004.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire''': 1.19.30.04<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.3004.70<br>'''PlayStation 4''': 2.50
| image = Bedrock 1.19.30.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = 
| date = September 20, 2022
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.19.30.04.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.19.30.04.zip Linux]
| prevparent = 1.19.0
| prev = 1.19.22
| next = 1.19.31
| nextparent = 1.20.0
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.19.30''' is a  minor update to {{BE}} released on September 20, 2022, which brought more parity with {{JE}}, and fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/9272494067469|title=Minecraft - 1.19.30 (Bedrock)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=September 20, 2022}}</ref>

== Changes ==
===Command format===
'''{{cmd|locate}}'''
*The original <code>/[[Commands/locate|locate]]</code> has been completely merged into the <code>/[[Commands/locate|locate]] structure</code> sub-command.
**Changed some structure's names in the <code>/[[Commands/locate|locate]] structure</code> sub-command to have underscores, like in {{JE}} (e.g. ancientcity -> ancient_city); the old names still work but do not appear in the autocomplete.

===General=== 
'''[[Music]]'''
*Music is now included on Android and Fire devices and no longer needs to be downloaded from the marketplace.

'''[[Control]]s'''
*Added keyboard shortcuts that allow players to copy either their current coordinates or the coordinates of a block.
**{{keys|Ctrl}} + {{keys|Alt}} + {{keys|C}} is the default for copying current coordinates.
**{{keys|Ctrl}} + {{keys|Alt}} + {{keys|X}} is the default for copying coordinates of selected block.
**Needs the "Enable Copy Coordinate UI" enabled in Creator settings.

==Fixes==
'''Performance / Stability'''
* Fixed a bug that rarely caused the villager's bounding box to become desynced with the server when sleeping.
* Fixed a bug causing an occasional crash when loading players in beds.
* The game no longer crashes when browsing Marketplace.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when resuming the game on Xbox.
* Fixed a bug where deleting cloud synced worlds would not delete the cloud version of the world when the player deletes the world locally.
* Fixed PlayStation 4 audio stuttering issues while framerate is low. ({{bug|MCPE-158902}})
* Fixed a crashing issue related to undyed shulkers.
* Most common Marketplace connection issues now automatically resolve themselves when conditions improve without needing to restart ''Minecraft''. ({{bug|MCPE-155025}})
* Fixed performance issues when striders are being ridden by baby striders. ({{bug|MCPE-146478}})
* Fixed a crash that would occur on some devices when loading in worlds with texture packs applied. ({{bug|MCPE-160800}})
* Fixed a crash when uploading a world with no name using "Play on Realm" button.

'''Gameplay'''
* Music is now included in the mobile app and no longer has to be downloaded from Marketplace.
* Fixed issue where player would see inside of top snow when diving into it while wearing elytra.
* Fireballs can no longer travel through portals to prevent an issue where they could become permanently stuck. ({{bug|MCPE-160938}})
* Pressing the Ctrl and Alt keys together no longer makes the Alt key get stuck down.

'''Mobs'''
* Endermen no longer get angry at Creative players. ({{bug|MCPE-42977}})
* Fixed a bug causing leads to break with allays after the owner player changes dimensions. ({{bug|MCPE-158955}})
* The goat's ram animation was modified to slowly lower their head when preparing to ram. ({{bug|MCPE-129477}})
* Reduced the enderman's teleport range to 32×32×32 to ensure that it cannot despawn itself by teleporting. ({{bug|MCPE-152268}})
* Allays and bees should no longer get stuck on lanterns or other low hanging objects. ({{bug|MCPE-155777}})
* EDU Toggle: NPC names default to being displayed only while looking at them.

'''Blocks'''
* Mud brick slabs can now be placed as a top slab via commands. ({{bug|MCPE-157852}})
* Banners now spawn correctly in newly generated structures. ({{bug|MCPE-160696}})
* Coral fans now look identical when placed facing north, west, east, and south. ({{bug|MCPE-125311}})
* White glazed terracotta is no longer missing from the Creative Mode inventory and is once again accessible through commands.
* Seagrass and kelp are no longer classified as Coral Decorations in the Creative Mode inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-44034}})
* Fixed a bug where some blocks that require a supporting block (for example carpet or crops) did not appear on maps when placed on a non-full block or above an air block. ({{bug|MCPE-159713}})
* Iron bars are no longer missing from the Creative Mode inventory and are once again accessible through commands. ({{bug|MCPE-160253}})
* Piston's animation when extending and retracting is now smooth. ({{bug|MCPE-155987}})
* It is no longer possible to get an aged sapling in the inventory by block-picking.

'''Items'''
* Fixed dropped items getting stuck at the edge of flowing water. ({{bug|MCPE-157167}})
* When on fire, the fire overlay no longer clips through held items. ({{bug|MCPE-147776}})
* Mangrove, crimson, and warped planks can now be used to repair shields. ({{bug|MCPE-158940}})
* Fixed a regression where an undamaged tool, such as a pickaxe, when name changed on an anvil, would fail to work correctly when used for the first time. ({{bug|MCPE-152637}})

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed a bug where the name tag background was slightly offset. ({{bug|MCPE-160254}})
* Fixed a UI bug where enchanted leather items would have parts of the texture not displaying the glint animation. ({{bug|MCPE-98929}})
* Added new disconnection error messages to better highlight the area in which the disconnection occurred.
* Character Creator offers in Marketplace no longer lose their thumbnail images upon exiting the Dressing Room.
* Added a Retry button to the Xbox cloud sync prompt.
* Item stacks now are merged together after assigned tick threshold.
* Added a missing settings button on packs in the updated Create New World screen.
* Added a new disconnection error message - "Unable to connect, please restart your client".
* Fixed an issue causing messages with non-unicode characters to have incorrect spacing.
* NPC names now default to being displayed only while looking at them.
* The arrow within the crafting Pocket UI now fits appropriately without any clipping issues.
* The "Cannot connect to Marketplace” error is no longer erroneously read by the <code>Text-To-Speech</code> reader.
* Raid bar no longer becomes stuck after breaking beds to cancel a raid. ({{bug|MCPE-152851}})

'''Graphical'''
* Player textures and UI elements should no longer turn pink after playing for an extended period time on highly populated servers. ({{bug|MCPE-105487}})
* Fixed an issue where certain water textures with waterlogged blocks displayed the wrong texture. ({{bug|MCPE-156281}})
* Fixed an issue with flowing lava and water textures not animating on some iOS devices.
* Sky in the End dimension no longer looks like static upon entry while it is raining in the Overworld. ({{bug|MCPE-148843}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Modified the fireball entity's collision box to match {{el|je}}.
* The enchanting table now produces a sound when enchanting an item.
* Amethyst blocks no longer produce sound when jumping off them.
* Fixed the bottom texture of the melon block to match the top texture. ({{bug|MCPE-31035}})
* The item stack popup animation now plays only when a new item is added to the stack. ({{bug|MCPE-23995}})
* Fixed an issue where light blocks would be removed when placing an armor stand over them. ({{bug|MCPE-151856}})
* Fixed an issue where boats with chests would not drop the chest's contents when destroyed by the {{cmd|kill}} command. ({{bug|MCPE-160186}})
* Eating a stew now leaves the empty bowl in the slot it was eaten from. ({{bug|MCPE-56367}})
* Drinking a potion now leaves the empty glass bottle in the slot you drank it from rather than the first empty inventory slot. ({{bug|MCPE-26436}})
* Oak and mangrove fence gates are now flammable. ({{bug|MCPE-160098}})

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed hoglin and zoglin hitbox size and hit range to match {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-65424}})
* Increased sculk shrieker and sculk sensor generation rates in deep dark and ancient cities to better match {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-153525}})
* Modified the cat's head position while sitting to match {{el|je}}. ({{bug|MCPE-46668}})
* If a villager has a name tag, it is now displayed along with their trade tier. ({{bug|MCPE-152644}})

'''Spectator Mode (Experimental)'''
* Capes are no longer rendered while in Spectator Mode. ({{bug|MCPE-156929}})
* Spectator players in lava cauldrons no longer display the burning animation. ({{bug|MCPE-160331}})
* Players in Spectator Mode are no longer affected by the powder snow fog effect. ({{bug|MCPE-156683}})
* Any leashed animals do not follow spectators anymore. ({{bug|MCPE-157065}})
* Players in Spectator Mode no longer emit particles while sprinting. ({{bug|MCPE-160397}})
* Spectator players with status effects applied no longer emit particles. ({{bug|MCPE-160398}})
* Endermen no longer become angry at players in Spectator Mode. ({{bug|MCPE-156742}})
* Players in Spectator Mode can no longer interact with sculk sensors by swimming in water or lava. ({{bug|MCPE-153879}})
* Players switching into Spectator Mode unhooks any fishhooks attached to them.
* Players in Spectator mode can no longer be pushed by explosions. ({{bug|MCPE-156687}})
* Powder snow no longer emits particles when spectators move through it. ({{bug|MCPE-153876}})
* Big dripleaf no longer tilts when touched by players in Spectator Mode. ({{bug|MCPE-156686}})
* Players in Spectator Mode now keep their inventories and equipped items on death. ({{bug|MCPE-156681}})
* Spectators can no longer attract mob's attention when holding their favorite food. ({{bug|MCPE-153882}})
* The {{cmd|testfor}} command can now target spectators. ({{bug|MCPE-158042}})
* The Spectator gamemode can no longer be entered via the {{cmd|gamemode 6}} command, only via {{cmd|gamemode spectator}}.
* Spectators using touch controls can no longer break boats and minecarts. ({{bug|MCPE-158307}})
* Parrots sitting on a player's shoulder now hop off when entering Spectator Mode.
* Animals and mobs with <code>follow_owner</code> behavior no longer follow Spectators.
* Animals and mobs with <code>find_mount</code> behavior no longer try to mount Spectators.
* Spectator Mode players won't have cold feet and now the Frost Walker enchant does not affect water.
* Pufferfish no longer react to nearby spectators.

==References==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.19.30]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.19.30]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.19.30]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.19.30]]
[[ru:1.19.30 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.30]]