{{Infobox version
|title=v1.14.1
|image=Bedrock 1.14.1.png
|server=1.14.1.4
|internal='''Android''': 1.14.1.5<br>'''PS4''': 2.01<br>'''Windows 10''': 1.14.105.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.14.105.70
|edition=Bedrock
|date=
'''Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire OS, Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Gear VR, Xbox One''': December 18, 2019<br>
'''PS4, Nintendo Switch''': December 19, 2019
|prevparent=1.14.0
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.14.1.4.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.14.1.4.zip Linux]
|prev=1.14.0.12
|next=1.14.20
|nextparent=1.16.0
}}

'''1.14.1''' is a hotfix to {{el|be}} released on December 18–19, 2019,<ref>{{tweet|MattGartzke|1207700034499694592|The Minecraft Bedrock 1.14.1 update is now available! Lots of fixes, especially with login issues on PlayStation 4. Give it a whirl!<br>Nintendo Switch players: You should be receiving the update around 7pm Pacific tonight so thanks for hanging in there.|Dec 19 2019}}</ref> which fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360037581632|title=Minecraft - 1.14.1 (Bedrock)|date=December 18, 2019}}</ref> This is the final version released in 2019.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay, across all platforms.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when signing into Xbox Live on some Android devices.
* Added a potential fix for a crash and user interface corruption that occurred after updating the game on Xbox One.

'''Performance'''
* Improved performance in areas with high numbers of players.
* Increased performance when loading skins on featured servers.

'''General'''
* Fixed some achievements and trophies unlocking for all players during a multiplayer session.

'''Gameplay'''
* View bobbing once again behaves correctly when facing North and South. ({{bug|MCPE-56214}})

'''Mobs'''
* Bees now become hostile towards the player when baby bees are attacked.
* Bees now die after attacking. ({{bug|MCPE-53860}})
* Monsters no longer spawn on glass and leaves.

'''Items'''
* Fixed items disappearing when crafting several items. ({{bug|MCPE-56118}})
* Fixed some instances of milk randomly disappearing from buckets. ({{bug|MCPE-57194}})

'''Character creator'''
* Fixed some character creator items appearing incorrectly.
* Fixes to character creator screens when scrolling with the right thumbstick.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed broken textures appearing after resource packs are deactivated.

'''User interface'''
* Fixed the prompt that appears when split-screen guests attempt to join a multiplayer world without a Nintendo Switch Online subscription.
* Fixed the Sign In button on the main menu having the wrong position and touching the edge of the screen with some languages.
* Fixed an issue that caused some players not to be able to leave the inventory screen on the Marketplace.
* Fixed placeholder text appearing on the resource packs and behavior packs screens.
* Various fixes to the user interface when using Japanese language.
* Fixed the Mario skin pack’s description never loading on Nintendo Switch.

== Trivia ==
* The first beta for 1.14.1 came out before 1.14.0 was fully released.
* This is the final Bedrock Edition update of 2019, and the last Minecraft update of the 2010s decade.
* This is the final non-x.x.0 update with development.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.14.1]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.14.1]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.14.1]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.14.1]]
[[pl:Bedrock Edition 1.14.1]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.14.1]]
[[ru:1.14.1 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.14.1]]