{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.50.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.50.22.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| date = '''Windows, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - October 26, 2022
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.5022.0<br>'''Xbox One''': 1.19.5022.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.50.22
| parent = 1.19.50
| prevparent = 1.19.41
| prev = Preview 1.19.50.21
| next = Preview 1.19.50.23
| nextparent = 1.19.51
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.19.50.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.50.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.50]], released on October 26, 2022,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/10164018997773|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.50.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=October 26, 2022}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Dressing Room]]'''
* Added a new flow to introduce the new Minecraft Cast Characters and how to use said characters as one's appearance.

=== Technical ===
'''Molang'''
* Fixed <code>has_property</code> to return 1 when a property exists and 0 when not, rather than the opposite of that.

'''Recipes'''
* Recipes that have the same inputs but have different outputs will now display content errors (excludes, crafting table and stonecutter recipes).

'''User Interface'''
* Fixed contrast issue of the little arrow in dropdown components on hover, the unselected toggle components and the toggle/sliders in chat settings.

'''JSON'''
* Released <code>BlockCollisionBoxComponent</code> outside of experimental toggle in JSON formats 1.19.50 and higher.
* Released <code>BlockCraftingTableComponent</code> outside of experimental toggle in JSON formats 1.19.50 and higher.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.

=== Changes ===
==== Mobs ====
'''[[Camel]]s'''
* Camels now slowly heal over time.
* Changed the Camel's walk animation.
** Camel walking animation now matches its movement speed.
* A camel now keeps dashing until it touches ground or water.
* The length of a camel dash is now influenced by the Speed and Jump Boost effects.

==== Items ====
'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Camel spawn egg now has new colors to better fit the color palette.

==== General ====
'''[[Tooltip]]s'''
* Added controller tooltip "Place Book" if the player looks at a non-full Chiseled Bookshelf holding a [[book]], [[book and quill]], [[written book]] or [[enchanted book]].
* Added controller tooltip "Remove Book" if the player looks at a non-empty Chiseled Bookshelf while holding nothing or anything else than a book, book and quill, written book or enchanted Book.

== Fixes ==
'''Blocks'''
* Chiseled and Cut Red Sandstone now have smooth undersides. ({{bug|MCPE-20006}})

'''Experimental'''
* Fixed the recipe for Chiseled Bookshelf so that it can be constructed from any type of Planks and wooden Slabs that have the standard tags.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed an issue where the player could clip through some walls while stuck inside blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-136536}})
* When stuck inside a block, players will now be pushed towards the nearest open area.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed choppy performance after resuming the game due to incorrectly presented frames.
* Mob shadows render properly on Android devices using ANGLE. ({{bug|MCPE-155354}})

'''Items'''
* Using the Anvil to enchant or fix items will no longer rename items unintentionally. ({{bug|MCPE-154453}})

'''Mobs'''
* Fixed a bug where Slimes and Magma Cubes could break Shield durability every tick. ({{bug|MCPE-119451}})
* Fixed a bug where Pufferfish could break Shield durability every tick. ({{bug|MCPE-143689}})
* Armor Stands will now drop their offhand item upon destruction. ({{bug|MCPE-158228}})
* Fixed a bug that caused the Ender Dragon to not load if the world was saved and loaded while it was alive. ({{bug|MCPE-156528}})

'''Spectator Mode'''
* Spectator Mode players can no longer spawn a Warden through Sculk Shriekers.
* Spectator Mode players can no longer activate Sculk Sensors or Pressure Plates. ({{bug|MCPE-163177}})
* Spectators no longer block players from interacting with other entities (blocks, buttons, levers, etc.)

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Fixed an issue that could cause a crash when loading into some Marketplace worlds on low memory devices. ({{bug|MCPE-161866}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when actors with a non-player owner went through End Portals.

'''Touch Controls'''
* Fixed an issue on mobile devices when swimming; charging a Bow, Crossbow, or Trident, no longer launch the weapon immediately. ({{bug|MCPE-136625}})
* Fixed an issue where joystick gestures were stopped if your finger overlapped with the hotbar. ({{bug|MCPE-159870}})
* Fixed an issue where players couldn't interact with the hotbar in some resource packs with the new touch controls. ({{bug|MCPE-157748}})
* The sprint and descend buttons in the crosshair mode now have the same colour as other buttons. ({{bug|MCPE-156740}})
* Resolved an issue where quickly tapping "Ascend" and "Descend" would cancel flying in the new touch controls. Going forward, double tapping "Descend" is how flying is cancelled. ({{bug|MCPE-162240}})
* Status icons now follow the safe zone when in touch mode.
* Adjusted status icons to form in one row across width of screen when in touch to account for new touch controls.

'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Lily Pads now pop with sound and particles when run into by a Boat. ({{bug|MCPE-65138}})
* Most blocks destroyed from lack of support now have visual particles, audio effects, and cause vibration events.
* Coral Fans can no longer be placed on the side of Slab blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-116986}})
* Coral Fans can now survive on top of solid transparent blocks like Glass. ({{bug|MCPE-112407}})
</onlyinclude>


==References==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.50.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.50.22]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.19.50.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.50.22]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.50.22]]