{{Infobox version
| image = Bedrock 1.19.70.22 PatchNotes.jpg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.19.70.22.png
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Preview
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br>
951907022 (armeabi-v7a, 31)<br>
961907022 (x86, 31)<br>
971907022 (arm64-v8a, 31)<br>
981907022 (x86_64, 31)<br>
| date = '''Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox''' - February 8, 2023<br>'''Android''' - February 11, 2023
| internal = '''Windows''': 1.19.7022.0<br>'''Xbox''': 1.19.7022.70<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.19.70.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.70.22.zip Windows]
[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.19.70.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.19.70
| prevparent = 1.19.63
| prev = Preview 1.19.70.21
| next = Preview 1.19.70.23
| nextparent = 1.19.71
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.19.70.22''' (Android) or '''Preview 1.19.70.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.19.70]], released on February 8-11, 2023,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/12940778804877|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.19.70.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 8, 2023}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Vines]]'''
* Now drop nothing when mined with [[Silk Touch]] enchanted tools except shears.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Next Major Update" and "Beta APIs" experimental toggle.
=== Changes ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Bamboo Fence]]s and [[Bamboo Fence Gate]]s'''
* Removed black lines along the edges of Bamboo Fences and Bamboo Fence Gates. ({{bug|MCPE-163360}})

'''[[Bamboo Hanging Sign]] and [[Mangrove Hanging Sign]] '''
* Mangrove and Bamboo Hanging Signs are now placed correctly in the Creative Inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-163340}})

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Camel]]s'''
* Camels can once again overcome obstacles as high as one block and a half. ({{bug|MCPE-166452}})

==== Technical ====
'''API'''
* Replaced general {{cd|setVelocity}} call with methods to apply impulses to entities:
** Added function {{cd|clearVelocity(): void}} - Sets the current velocity of the Entity to zero.
** Added function {{cd|applyImpulse(vector: Vector3): void}} - Applies impulse vector to the current velocity of the Entity.
** Added function {{cd|applyKnockback(directionX: number, directionZ: number, horizontalStrength: number, verticalStrength: number): void}} - Applies ** knockback to the Entity in specified direction based on vertical and horizontal strength.
** Removed function {{cd|setVelocity}}.
* BeforeExplosionEvent
** Added function {{cd|getImpactedBlocks(): Vector3[]}} - Gets the blocks locations that are impacted by the explosion.
** Added function {{cd|setImpactedBlocks(blocks: Vector3[]): void}} - Sets the blocks locations that are impacted by the explosion.
** Removed property {{cd|impactedBlocks}}.
* BeforeItemUseOnEvent
** Added function {{cd|getBlockLocation(): Vector3}} - Gets the location of the block being impacted.
** Removed property {{cd|blockLocation}}.
* BlockInventoryComponent
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
* BlockLavaContainerComponent
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
* BlockPistonComponent
** Added function {{cd|getAttachedBlocks(): Vector3[]}} - Gets the blocks locations that are impacted by the activation of this piston.
** Removed property {{cd|attachedBlocks}}.
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
* BlockPotionContainerComponent
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
* BlockRecordPlayerComponent
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
* BlockSignComponent
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
* BlockSnowContainerComponent
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
* BlockWaterContainerComponent
** Removed property {{cd|location}}.
** Added function {{cd|getHeadLocation(): Vector3}} - Gets the head location of the Entity.
** Removed property {{cd|headLocation}}.
* ExplosionEvent
** Added function {{cd|getImpactedBlocks(): Vector3[]}} - Gets the blocks locations that are impacted by the explosion.
** Removed property {{cd|impactedBlocks}}.
* ItemStartUseOnEvent
** Added function {{cd|getBlockLocation(): Vector3}} - Gets the location of the block being impacted.
** Added function {{cd|getBuildBlockLocation(): Vector3}} - Gets the location of the resulting build block.
** Removed property {{cd|blockLocation}}.
** Removed property {{cd|buildBlockLocation}}.
* ItemStopUseOnEvent
** Added function {{cd|getBlockLocation(): Vector3}} - Gets the location of the block being impacted.
** Removed property {{cd|blockLocation}}.
* ItemUseOnEvent
** Added function {{cd|getBlockLocation(): Vector3}} - Gets the location of the block being impacted.
** Removed property {{cd|blockLocation}}.
* NavigationResult
** Added function {{cd|getPath(): Vector3[]}} - Gets the locations of the blocks that comprise the navigation route.
** Removed property {{cd|path}}.
* Player
** Added function {{cd|getHeadLocation(): Vector3}} - Gets the head location of the Player.
** Removed property {{cd|headLocation}}.
* ItemStack
** Added read-only property {{cd|getMaxAmount: number}} - Returns the maximum stack size for the item.
** Added read-only property {{cd|isStackable: bool}} - Returns whether the item is stackable.
** Added function {{cd|isStackableWith(itemStack: ItemStack): bool}} - Returns whether the item can be stacked with the given item.
** Added read-only property {{cd|type: ItemType}} - Returns the type of the item.
** Added function {{cd|clone(): ItemStack}} - Returns a copy of the item stack.
** Added property {{cd|keepOnDeath: bool}} - Sets whether the item is kept on death.
** Added property {{cd|lockMode: ItemLockMode}} - Sets whether the item can be moved or dropped.
** Added function {{cd|setCanPlaceOn(blockIdentifiers?: string[])}} - Sets which blocks the item can be placed on.
** Added function {{cd|setCanDestroy(blockIdentifiers?: string[])}} - Sets which blocks this item can destroy.

== Fixes ==
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Impact sounds of projectiles on Amethyst blocks and clusters are now audible.
* Dead Bush will now drop Sticks when broken with any tool except Shears, even those with the Silk Touch enchantment. Vines will drop nothing in the same situation. ({{bug|MCPE-163246}})
* Bells no longer break when a block is placed underneath or above them. ({{bug|MCPE-166742}})

'''Spectator Mode'''
* Phasing through blocks in third person view no longer makes the camera zoom in and out towards the player’s head. ({{bug|MCPE-160467}})
* End Gateways can no longer be used in Spectator Mode. ({{bug|MCPE-165689}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Redstone source can now power a single block from different sides at the same time. ({{bug|MCPE-163651}})
* Players are no longer able to begin flying if they have no space to stand up. ({{bug|MCPE-166413}})
* Players can now fall off of an edge while sneaking if not holding the sneak button.

'''Blocks'''
* Composter now always consumes an item when becoming full. ({{bug|MCPE-162020}})

'''Mobs'''
* Witches will drink a Fire Resistance Potion when standing on a Campfire.

'''Items'''
* Crossbow now shakes while charging arrows. ({{bug|MCPE-152952}})
* Loot table conditions are no longer ignored in-game when used inside functions. ({{bug|MCPE-164582}})
* Spawn eggs for Snow Golem, Wither, and Trader Llama now appear correctly in the inventory and hotbar.

'''Marketplace'''
* Added a new 'Marketplace' icon to the Marketplace screen sidebar.

'''User Interface'''
* Carrots now display the proper name in item tooltips when used in can_place_on and can_destroy item components. ({{bug|MCPE-160838}})
* Tweaked the keyboard interaction on Android devices for text input fields.

'''Commands'''
* The {{cmd|summon}} command no longer causes some entities to be spawned in at an angle.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.19.70 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.70.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.19.70.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.19.70.22]]
[[zh:基岩版1.19.70.22]]