{{Infobox version
|title=v1.7.0
|vernum=1.7
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Enter the Hive.png
|image2=Scoreboard coming to Bedrock.png
|image3=Bedrock 1.7.0.png
|date='''iOS''' – October 15, 2018{{citation needed}}<br>'''Android, Fire OS, Gear VR, Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch''' – October 16, 2018
|server=1.7.0.13
|internal='''Windows 10''': 1.7.13.0
|serverdl='''Server'''<br>[https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win/bedrock-server-1.7.0.13.zip Windows] [https://minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux/bedrock-server-1.7.0.13.zip Linux]
|prevparent=1.6.0
|prev=1.6.2
|next=1.7.1
|nextparent=1.8.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/1.7 releases}}

'''1.7.0''' is a major update to {{BE}} released on October 15–16, 2018.{{citation needed}} It adds the {{cmd|scoreboard}} command, the ability to eat food in [[Creative]], ''The Hive'' multiplayer server, and highlights for [[player]] names in the chat, and also fixes bugs. This was the last version to support Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) and Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean).

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Scoreboard]] system'''
* Adds basic scoreboard functionality.
* Track, edit and display certain objectives per player.
* Used via {{cmd|scoreboard}} command or command block.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|scoreboard}} '''
* Used to interact with the scoreboard system.

'''{{cmd|gamerule}}'''
* Added {{code|commandblocksenabled}} rule.
** Toggles [[command block]] functionality.

=== Servers ===
'''[[Featured servers]]'''
* Added '' The Hive''.

== Changes ==
===Items===
'''All [[food]]s'''
* Can now be eaten while the player is in [[Creative]] mode or when the difficulty is set to [[Peaceful]].

'''[[Chorus fruit]] '''
* Moved from Nature to Items section in the Creative inventory.

'''[[Raw fish]] and [[Cooked fish]]'''
* Have been renamed to "raw cod" and "cooked cod", respectively.

=== General ===
'''[[Chat]]'''
* Mentions of player names are now highlighted yellow in chat.
* Typing {{key|@}} in chat will now show an autocomplete list of player names.

'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Made it easier to find purchased content, search, and go home from the top of the Marketplace screen.
* Improved search results, sorting, and filtering.
* The player can now send links to Marketplace content using the share button.

'''[[Pause menu]]'''
* Added an ”Invite to game” button under the player list.
* The name of the [[world]] is now displayed at the top of the player list.

'''[[Splash]]'''
* Removed "Down with O.P.P.!"

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes/performance'''
* Fixed the cause of over 20 crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when a trident with Channeling was shot from a dispenser and hit a mob or player during a thunderstorm.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when breaking a door that many villagers were trying to open or enter. ({{bug|MCPE-34742}})
* Fixed a crash that occurred when using a 128x resource pack on Nintendo Switch. 
* Fixed a crash that occurred when attempting to stack explorer maps when trading with a cartographer villager.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when loading the settings screen right after loading a resource pack.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when backing out of a Realm's edit menu after attempting to download a world but not having enough free space.

'''General'''
* Fixed an exploit that allowed custom skins with custom and invisible geometry, causing unfair advantages in multiplayer sessions. ({{bug|MCPE-37343}})
* Added additional messaging to disable Multiplayer in world settings to play split-screen without a Nintendo Switch Online membership. 
* Guests rejoining in a different order than they joined for the first time no longer generate different progress during split-screen gameplay. 
* Synced cloud worlds on Xbox One now display the proper date on the Worlds list.
* Fixed player permission issues that prevented players from building or mining.
* Fixed Super Mario Mash-up Pack worlds not opening if created before version 1.6.0. ({{bug|MCPE-37327}})
* Fixed textures not applying on Nintendo Switch when the world is hosted on another platform.
* Fixed split-screen players not being able to join Local Network games on Nintendo Switch.
* Fixed Microsoft Account sign-in failures on Nintendo Switch.
* Fixed an issue that caused the game to not properly detect if a world was played in a version later than the current one.

'''Gameplay'''
* Crouching on ladders will no longer stop when opening the pause menu or inventory screen ({{bug|MCPE-33209}})
* Swimming while moving the camera with touch controls no longer breaks blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-33470}})
* Items can once again be dropped while in a boat.
* The Looting III enchantment once again increases mob loot drop chances ({{bug|MCPE-35307}})
* When a player equips a carved pumpkin as a helmet, that player's marker now disappears from the locator maps of other players.
* Players no longer teleport to vehicles/mobs that are hit by an ender pearl when the vehicle/mob is in the player's render distance.
* Fixed players getting stuck in the edges of Old worlds at 128 or in the Void.
* When dealing a killing blow to mobs using Knockback, they now actually get knocked back. ({{bug|MCPE-19222}})

'''Items'''
* Enchantment books are no longer lost after using an anvil to rename an item and adding an incompatible enchantment.
* Tridents with Loyalty no longer get lost in the void when used in the End.
* Phantom spawn eggs can now be obtained using Pick Block.
* Players using controllers can again drop held items while in a minecart.
* Leads no longer detach and disappear when reentering a world. ({{bug|MCPE-33263}})
* Infinity bow arrows are no longer picked up immediately after being fired when the bow is slightly drawn. ({{bug|MCPE-35821}})
* Renamed spawn eggs now produce renamed mobs.
* Flaming arrows once again ignite minecarts with TNT. ({{bug|MCPE-35776}})

'''Mobs'''
* If a pet forgets what player is their owner after updating the game, it will sit down and wait for someone to interact with them & this player becomes the new owner of the pet. The pet doesn't need to be re-tamed with items. ({{bug|MCPE-33152}})
* Mobs can now walk through soul sand with nether wart. ({{bug|MCPE-12719}})
* Skeleton horses and zombie horses no longer die after a certain amount of time. ({{bug|MCPE-35215}})
* Horses in the same boat as the player no longer get hit when targeted by blocks in front of the player. ({{bug|MCPE-30299}})
* Releasing a tropical fish from a bucket of fish no longer releases a random fish but the one that was originally caught. 
* Armored withers can no longer be damaged with thrown tridents. 
* Drowned no longer have swimming animation while riding in boat.
* The inventory of ridden mounts can no longer be accessed by another player while the player is riding it. 
* Mobs can no longer spawn in small gaps unless they can fit. ({{bug|MCPE-31193}})
* Enderman can no longer spawn in two block high gaps with slabs above. ({{bug|MCPE-28626}})
* Cured zombie villagers spawned from zombie villages can now be traded with. ({{bug|MCPE-34603}})
* Pigs with saddles now throw players off their back when they start moving though 2-block-high bodies of water.

'''Blocks'''
* Fixed a bug where it was sometimes not possible for a player to place a block in the same block space where they are standing. ({{bug|MCPE-31030}})
* Sea pickles now break instantly in Survival mode. ({{bug|MCPE-36250}})
* Barrier blocks can no longer be destroyed by the ender dragon. ({{bug|MCPE-34410}})
* Monster spawners no longer drop as items after an explosion. ({{bug|MCPE-32657}})
* Rails are once again broken by flowing water.

'''Realms'''
* A message now appears on the Realms list if Xbox Live privileges are preventing Realms from being played.
* Clarified the text that appears when replacing a world on a Realm.

'''World generation'''
* Ladders no longer generate in midair on village church structures.
* Fixed structures generating inside ocean monuments.

'''Graphical'''
* Fixed entities missing body parts on various Android devices. ({{bug|MCPE-34385}})
* It is now easier to see through water in Flat worlds. ({{bug|MCPE-36078}}, {{bug|MCPE-35244}})
* Adjusted in-hand placement of bows and tridents in split-screen. 
* Fixed visual effects not appearing when using an enchanted trident with Riptide. ({{bug|MCPE-34448}})

'''Audio'''
* Sound once again resumes after receiving a notification on iOS devices. ({{bug|MCPE-15841}})
* The proper sound now plays when the wither is spawned. ({{bug|MCPE-35179}})
* Banners now have the correct placing and breaking sounds. ({{bug|MCPE-31188}})
* Land-based mobs now play sounds underwater.

'''User interface'''
* Fixed several items not stacking properly in inventory and chests when using touch input ({{bug|MCPE-32347}})
* Using the Quick Move option now properly stacks the taken items with stacks of the same item in the player inventory when there is an empty hotbar slot.
* Cursor D-pad input no longer gets stuck on the inventory screen or pause menu. ({{bug|MCPE-33895}})
* Removed the "Take Half" tooltip when highlighting the anvil's output slot. 
* Item tooltips that display "Can break" and "Can be placed on" now show the proper translation for the given blocks. 
* Fixed incorrect button focus on the chat screen. 
* Fixed formatted text getting cut off on the HUD. 
* Fixed overlapping text on the enchantment table screen.

'''Commands'''
* Fixed input on minecarts with command block not saving between game sessions.
* Fixed trapdoors losing their orientation after being cloned.
* Autofill commands now recognize a player name in brackets and places it between quotes. ({{bug|MCPE-34913}})
* The {{cmd|teleport}} command now reliably teleports riders with entities.
* The {{cmd|title}} command can now run whilst a title is visible on screen. ({{bug|MCPE-25685}})

'''Add-ons'''
* Using behavior files to change the shooting location of a projectile no longer makes the projectile shoot and miss the target.
* Mobs now stop moving when all movement components are removed from their behavior.
* The '{{code|can_float}}' component now works properly with '{{code|minecraft:navigation.float}}' on flying mobs.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|IPrALmbDy44}}

== Trivia ==
* 1.7.0 features the least amount of content in any major update.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition 1.7.0]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition 1.7.0]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock 1.7.0]]
[[it:Bedrock Edition 1.7.0]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition 1.7]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock 1.7.0]]
[[ru:1.7.0 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.7.0]]