{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.10022.0<br>'''Android''': 1.21.100.22
| image = Bedrock 1.21.100.22.png
| build = 34567631
| editorver = 1.0.3
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952110022 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962110022 (x86, 34)<br />
972110022 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982110022 (x86_64, 34)
| date = June 25, 2025
| server = 1.21.100.22
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.100.22.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.100.22.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.100
| prevparent = 1.21.94
| prev = Preview 1.21.100.21
| next = Preview 1.21.100.23
| nextparent = 1.21.101
}}<onlyinclude>
'''Beta 1.21.100.22''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.100.22''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the third beta/''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.100]], released on June 25, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/37552064279565-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-100-22|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.100.22|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=June 25, 2025}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Lead]]'''
*Leashes will now emit their breaking sound from the location of the leash holder, rather than the actor being leashed.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Happy Ghast]]'''
*It now drops 1-3 experience orbs when killed by a player.
*Increased volume of happy ghast ride sound.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Death]]'''
*Enabled engine changes to mob death behavior. This refactor shouldn’t affect gameplay.

=== Technical ===
'''[[Biome]]s'''
*Updated {{cd|minecraft:grass_appearance}} component with {{cd|grass_is_shaded}} variable if {{cd|true}} it adds a shading effect to the grass as if there was a roof.

'''[[Block]]s'''
*Released the component {{cd|minecraft:random_offset}} from experimental for block format versions 1.21.100 or higher.

'''Graphical'''
*Fishing Line: Increased thickness in Vibrant Visuals mode, so that the fishing line does not disappear from TAA.
*Reduced the alpha value from 60% to 25% for hurt color overlay on entities to aid in accessibility.
*Caustics textures with incorrect dimensions will no longer be loaded; a content error will be issued and the default caustics texture will be used instead.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Custom Biomes", and "Data-Driven Jigsaw Structures" [[experimental]] toggles.

=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
*Added class {{cd|ItemBookComponent}} to {{cd|beta}} for interfacing with {{cd|minecraft:writable_book}} and {{cd|minecraft:written_book}} to change their contents and sign them.
*Added class {{cd|BookError}} and class {{cd|BookPageContentError}} to {{cd|beta}}.

'''Biomes'''
*Added a new server side biome component {{cd|surface_builder}} that will combine the components {{cd|surface_parameters}}, {{cd|frozen_ocean_surface}}, {{cd|mesa_surface}}, {{cd|swamp_surface}}, {{cd|capped_surface}}, and {{cd|the_end_surface}} into one component. Each biome can only use one builder type. The component can be used for world generation settings such as foundation material and sea floor depth.
*Added {{cd|minecraft:humidity}} component with {{cd|is_humid}} this forces a biome to either always be humid or never humid. Humidity effects the spread chance, and spread rate of fire in the biome.
*Added {{cd|minecraft:partially_frozen}} This component will impact the temperature in a frozen biome, causing some areas to not be frozen. Ex: patchy ice, patchy snow.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[Jigsaw]]'''
*Changed structure definitions folder from {{cd|worldgen/jigsaw_structures}} to {{cd|worldgen/structures}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.100.22 Preview
|;old
|100021|Campfires/TNT/candles can be lit by using a Fire Aspect book on them
|219143|The block "permutations" array is not taken into account when determining destruction particles from material instances
|219627|Missing Localized Text for {{cd|action.interact}} When Using Lead to Attach Entities on Mobile
|220496|Tridents no longer damage mobs after being moved by a piston or trapdoor in certain situations
|otherissuescount=1}}
'''Other'''
*Fixed a crash related to reading incorrect or corrupt json data for animated blocks. Instead we now trigger a content error and prevent the block from animating.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.100 betas]]

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.100.22]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.100.22]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.100.22]]
[[ru:Preview 1.21.100.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.100.22 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.100.22]]