{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.16.230.50 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.16.230.50.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.16.23050.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.16.23050.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.16.230.50<br>
|parent=1.17.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android:''' March 25, 2021
|prevparent=1.16.221
|prev=
|next=beta 1.16.230.52
|nextparent=1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.16.230.50''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0]],{{efn|Bedrock Edition 1.16.230 would not be a version of the game and its betas are instead part of [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.0|1.17.0]].<ref>{{tweet|CornerHardMC|1397616108056707072|Correct, no 1.16.230|May 26, 2021}}</ref>}} released on March 25, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360058571432|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.16.230.50 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=March 25, 2021}}</ref> which adds new [[glow lichen]] blocks behind [[Experimental Gameplay|experimental]] toggle, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Glow Lichen]]'''
* A dim light source that generates in caves.
* It can be [[Waterlogging|waterlogged]].
* Use [[shear]]s to pick it up.
* Use [[bonemeal]] to spread it along block surfaces.
* Glow lichen can be composted.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Hanging Roots]]'''
* Can now be composted.

'''[[Rooted Dirt]]'''
* Can now be turned into grass path using a shovel.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Bee]]s'''
* Are now attracted to flowering azalea and flowering azalea leaves.

=== Technical ===
'''GameTest Framework '''
* Added Dimension class 
* Added World.getDimension 
* Updated the GameTest Framework interface:
** <code>function assertEntityPresentInArea(entityIdentifier : string)</code>
*** Throws an Error if an entity matching the given identifier does not exist in the test region 
** <code>function print(text : string)</code>
*** Prints the given text to the chat 
** <code>function assertEntityInstancePresent(entity : Entity, position : BlockLocation)</code>
*** Throws an Error if the given entity is not present in the given block location 
** Removed <code>function setEntityTamed(entityIdentifier : string, position : BlockLocation)</code>
*** Replaced by component <code>function setTamed(showParticles : bool)</code>
* Entity 
** <code>function getComponents()</code>
*** Returns an array of supported components 
** <code>function getComponent(componentIdentifier : string)</code>
*** Returns the component matching the given identifier 
** <code>function hasComponent(componentIdentifier : string)</code>
*** Returns true if the given component exists on the entity and is supported 
** <code>function getName()</code>
*** Returns the name of the entity (e.g. "Horse") 
** Components for color, health, leashable, and tamemount were added 
** <code>function kill()</code>
*** Kills the entity 
* World 
** <code>addEventListener(eventName : string, callback : function(entity : Entity))</code>
*** Registers an event listener for entity events Supported Events: 
*** <code>onEntityCreated</code>
**** Fires when an entity is created 
*** <code>onEntityDefinitionTriggered</code>
**** Fires when an entity definition event is triggered 
* Renamed {{cmd|gametest runall}} to {{cmd|gametest runset}} 
* The default value for the tag parameter is now {{cd|suite:default}}.

== Fixes ==
'''Android '''
* Added mouse and keyboard support for Android devices that support it (Oreo and newer) 
* Certain Android devices no longer fail to perform multilingual input  
* Crosshair placement is no longer offset on certain Android devices  
* The game will no longer fail to properly shutdown on certain Android devices  
* Fixed resolution issues on certain Android devices  
* Fixed networking issues on certain Android devices  
* Going underwater on certain Android devices no longer makes the screen go pitch-black  

'''General '''
* Powder Snow Block no longer drops when destroyed by an explosion ({{bug|MCPE-118666}})  
* Fixed issue where smelting behavior for several fuel sources was broken ({{bug|MCPE-121863}})  
* First person eating animation is now centered in the frame ({{bug|MCPE-116678}})  
* First person main hand blocking animation now plays properly ({{bug|MCPE-115536}})  
* First person main hand and off-hand shields are now symmetrical ({{bug|MCPE-116736}})  
* Fixed an issue where patterns in the loom with different resolutions than Vanilla assets would not display correctly  
* Crafting (Waxed) Weathered Cut Copper Slabs in the Stonecutter now yields two slabs instead of one ({{bug|MCPE-121695}})  
* Leads now correctly attach to Goats ({{bug|MCPE-104161}})

'''Lush Cave Blocks '''
* Azalea leaves and flowering azalea leaves now correctly dropped when sheared  
* Moss blocks can now correctly be fertilized using dispensers  
* Hanging roots can now correctly be composted  
* Small dripleaf now drops as an item when sheared  
* Placing a big dripleaf on another big dripleaf increases its height by one  
* Using shovel on rooted dirt creates a grass path block  
* Bees consider flowering azalea and flowering azalea leaves as flowers  
* Using Pick Block function on Cave Vines or breaking them with Silk Touch-enchanted tool now yields Glow Berries  

'''User Interface '''
* Fixed an issue where cancelling joining a world while generating it caused the user to get stuck in the progress screen ({{bug|MCPE-114776}}).

'''Technical '''
* Several enums in ActorDataIDs were added by mistake, and are now being removed. 
* Catmull-Rom animations will no longer glitch if the time for a keyframe matches its value. 
* All functions run using the {{cmd|schedule}} command now run from the origin they are supposed to, instead of from the server.  
* Replaced "Whitelist" language use to "AllowList". Dedicated server command "whitelist" changed to "allowlist". Dedicated server "whitelist.json" file changed to "allowlist.json" file. JSON format remains the same.
* Fixed {{cd|query.is_in_ui}} so that it is available to use when a data-driven mob is rendering in the UI ({{cd|query.is_in_ui}} returns true when the mob is rendering in the UI, such as in the inventory window).</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==

<references group="fn"/>

== References ==

{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.50]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.50]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.16.230.50]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.16.230.50]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.16.230.50]]
[[ru:Beta 1.16.230.50 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.16.230.50]]