{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.6.10
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = August 1, 2024
| client = 1.21.30.21
| prevparent = 0.6.0
| prev = 0.6.9
| next = 0.6.11
| nextparent = 0.7.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.6.10''' is a minor alpha release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on August 1, 2024, which updates the Client Widget System and API changes.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/187</ref><ref>https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/28896769176845</ref>

== Changes ==
'''Client Widget System'''
* Revamped Client Widget System:
** Refactored the Client Widget system to use components for base widget functionality.
** Added Editor Client Renderer Helper Service to aid with Editor in-world widget rendering.
** Changed Gizmo movement to be completely free moving and snap to grid on release.
** Added new widget components for Entities, Text, Gizmos, Height Guide, and basic Render Primitives.
'''{{cd|PropertyPane}} API'''
* Additional updates to the {{cd|PropertyPane}} API:
** Removed {{cd|IPropertyPane}} {{cd|addBlockPicker}} and {{cd|addEntityPicker}} methods in favor of {{cd|addComboBox}} API that leverages type safe {{cd|IObservableProp}} value.
*** Added interfaces {{cd|IComboBoxPropertyItem}} and {{cd|IComboBoxPropertyItemOptions}}.
*** Combo box supports different data types for additional validation with {{cd|ComboBoxPropertyItemDataType}}. Entity and Block types work similarly to the old component, Custom type allows user defined list and it's the default.
** Added an alternative Property Pane {{cd|addNumber}} API that leverages type safe {{cd|IObservableProp}} value API.
*** Added interfaces {{cd|INumberPropertyItem}} and {{cd|INumberPropertyItemOptions}} for the new property item.
*** Renamed function to create property bag number item to {{cd|addNumber_deprecated}}.
** Updated theme colors for input fields, and center aligned number input field values.
** Added an alternative Property Pane {{cd|addDropdown}} API that leverages type safe {{cd|IObservableProp}} value.
*** Added interfaces {{cd|ropdownPropertyItem}}, {{cd|IDropdownPropertyItemOptions}} and {{cd|IDropdownPropertyItemEntry}} for the new property item. Each dropdown entry now supports {{cd|imageData?: ImageResourceData}} property to render an image.
*** Renamed function to create property bag number item to {{cd|addDropdown_deprecated}}.
** Added an alternative Property Pane {{cd|addColorPicker}} API that leverages type safe {{cd|IObservableProp}} value API.
*** Added interfaces {{cd|IColorPickerPropertyItem}} and {{cd|IColorPickerPropertyItemOptions}} for the new property item.
*** Renamed function to create property bag color picker item to {{cd|addColorPicker_deprecated}}.
** Added an alternative Property Pane {{cd|addString}} API that leverages type safe {{cd|IObservableProp}} value API.
*** Added interfaces {{cd|IStringPropertyItem}} and {{cd|IStringPropertyItemOptions}} for the new property item.
*** Renamed function to create property bag string item to {{cd|addString_deprecated}}.
'''Other'''
* Added the following functions to {{cd|ExtensionContext.settings.theme}}: {{cd|addNewTheme(name: string): void}}, {{cd|deleteTheme(name: string): void}}, {{cd|getCurrentTheme(): string}}, and {{cd|updateThemeColor(name: string, key: ThemeSettingsColorKey, newColor: minecraftserver.RGBA): void}}. These functions will throw if {{cd|minecraft:default}} or any other built-in theme is passed to them. {{cd|updateThemeColor}} and {{cd|deleteTheme}} will also throw if the theme does not exist.
* Added block image support to block picker modal.
* Added validation to prevent adding already existing block in a probability palette item.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed theming and content alignment issues for the dropdown UI elements.
* Fixed missing Summon Tool icon.
* Fixed a bug where typing certain characters in the block or entity picker caused an error.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|alpha}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.6.10]]
[[uk:0.6.10 (Bedrock Editor)]]