{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.9.6
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = April 22, 2025
| client = 1.21.90.20
| prevparent = 0.9.0
| prev = 0.9.5
| next = 0.9.7
| nextparent = 1.0.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.9.6''' is a minor beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on April 22, 2025, which fixes bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/234|title=Release 0.9.6 (1.21.90.20)|website=GitHub|date=April 22, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/36030119254925-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-90-20|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.90.20|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=April 22, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added a toggle to the Smart Fill tool to allow the user to select if operations should be limited to the selected blocks only.
* Added 'Show Locator Bar' to export/Upload To Realms options.
* Added exported world file path to the log panel after successful world export.

== Changes ==
* Updated movement controls for Tool mode.
** Changed default {{key|up}} and {{key|down}} keys to {{key|E}} and {{key|Q}}, {{key|Shift}} and {{key|Space}} are no longer defaults.
** Changed cursor settings mouse mode toggle shortcut from {{key|C}} to {{key|T}} key.
** Mouse Scroll now zooms toward the cursor. Updated fixed cursor mode offset to use {{key|Shift}}+Scroll.
** Added middle-click drag to pan in the XZ plane.
** Added {{key|Z}} and {{key|C}} keys to orbit around the existing block cursor.
** Added {{key|Shift+Z}} and {{key|Shift+C}} keys to orbit around the existing selection.
* Updated Action Bar items to open automatically once added to Action Bar list.
* Updated the default UI scale changed to 75% for resolutions that support it. Resolutions that do not support it use a default of 100%.
* Updated Download from Realms to provide the user with the directory the world was downloaded to.
* Updated Workbench tool to enable block modification outside of selection.
* Updated Freehand Selection carve mode so that if there's already a freehand selection, user can just hold {{key|Ctrl}} to remove blocks without resetting it. Previously, this required {{key|Shift+Ctrl}} to be held together.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug to ensure the Terrain Tool's indicator appears after mouse click.
* Fixed a bug where a player could incorrectly load another player's hotbar setting in a multiplayer session after re-entering a game.
* Fixed a bug that was causing property pane item additions to not update properly on the UI.
** Whenever a property item or sub-pane is added, the parent pane is automatically notified and refreshed.
** Introduced optional {{cd|beginConstruct}} and {{cd|endConstruct}} functions in the IPropertyPane API to delay notifications until the entire pane is constructed. This improves performance by reducing unnecessary notifications.
* Fixed a bug where modals with large text couldn't scroll.
* Fixed a bug causing the grapple camera transition to stutter.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.9.6]]
[[ru:0.9.6 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.9.6 (Bedrock Editor)]]