{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.10.24 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.10.24.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.18.1024.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.1024.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.10.24<br>
|parent=1.18.10
|date='''Xbox, Windows, Android''': December 15, 2021
|prevparent=1.18.2
|prev=beta 1.18.10.22
|next=beta 1.18.10.26
|nextparent=1.18.11
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.10.24''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.10]], released on December 15, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4416595181965|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.18.10.24 (Xbox / Windows / Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=December 15, 2021}}</ref> which adds some of [[The Wild Update]] features behind the [[experimental gameplay]] and fixes bugs. This is the final beta released in 2021.

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Banner pattern]]s'''
* Added a new "Globe" banner pattern.
** Currently unobtainable in survival.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Wild Update" and "Enable GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.
=== Additions ===
==== Blocks ====
'''[[Frog Egg]]'''
* Non-solid block that can be placed on water.
* Laid by frogs after mating.

==== Items ====
'''[[Spawn Egg]]s'''
* Frog spawn egg added.
* Tadpole spawn egg added.

'''[[Bucket of aquatic mob|Bucket of Tadpole]]'''
* Obtained by {{ctrl|using}} a water bucket on a tadpole, similar to obtaining a bucket of fish or axolotl.
* Can be used to transport tadpoles as with fish and axolotls.

==== Mobs ====
'''[[Frog]]s'''
* Can croak, jump, swim, and walk on land.
* Come in three variants: default, tropical, and snowy.
** The default variant is orange, the tropical variant is white, and the snowy variant is green.
* Can be tempted and bred using [[seagrass]].
** Lay eggs on water after mating.
* Grow from [[tadpole]]s.
* Variants depend on the temperature of the biome it turns from a tadpole to a frog in.
* Eat small [[slime]]s.

'''[[Tadpole]]s'''
* Jump around like fish when on land, and eventually die.
* Grow up into frogs.
* Can be held in a [[water bucket]].
* Frog type dependent on which temperature a tadpole grows in.
** Has 3 variants, tropical, temperate, and tundra.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''GameTest framework'''
* Dimension
** Updated Dimension:spawnEntity to take a Location or a BlockLocation.
* BlockBreakEvent
** Added property brokenBlockPermutation to indicate which kind of block was broken.

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Players no longer gain a particle effect when obtaining Bad Omen from pillager captains.
* Sleeping in a bed will once again trigger the fade to black screen ({{bug|MCPE-148504}}).
* The camera will now interpolate its position again when the player sneaks ({{bug|MCPE-148482}}).

'''Villagers'''
* Villagers now make a "no" sound when attempting to make a trade when they are out of stock ({{bug|MCPE-113788}}).

'''Rendering'''
* Fixed a bug where the ender dragon would become invisible when flying towards the portal fountain after dying ({{bug|MCPE-149119}}).

'''Stability and performance'''
* Fixed a crash that could occur when the player was near a village.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when shift-clicking armor in the crafting table while using Pocket UI ({{bug|MCPE-144863}}).

'''User interface'''
* Added appropriate padding to "Item Text Name" box UI for when players have armor equipped in Survival mode and select items via the hotbar ({{bug|MCPE-143928}}).
* Fixed an issue where text shadows had a reduced offset when text message contains button glyph.

'''Commands'''
* Fixed a bug that caused the '{{cmd|kill}}' command to not kill entities with the Absorption effect ({{bug|MCPE-142763}}).
* When using '{{cmd|replaceitem}}' on a donkey's or mule's chest, the item will now go to the correct slot.

'''Education Edition features'''
* Axolotls, bees, boats, cats, dolphins, glow squid, goats, hoglins, iron golems, ocelots, pandas, parrots, pigs, polar bears, squid, striders, wolves, and zoglins can now have balloons attached to them.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.24]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.24]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.10.24]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.18.10.24]]
[[ru:Beta 1.18.10.24 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.10.24]]