{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.10.0.4.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.10.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>February 6, 2019
|prevparent=1.9.0
|prev=beta 1.10.0.3
|next=
|nextparent=1.10.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.10.0.4''' is the second and final beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]], released on February 6, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360023046891-Minecraft-Beta-1-10-0-4-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.10.0.4 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=February 6, 2019}}</ref> which changes the texture of the [[smithing table]] and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Smithing table]]'''
* Changed texture to match the texture {{in|je}}.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning near new villages on mobile devices.
* Mason villagers now have trades.
* Hills in tall birch forests now generate at the correct height again.
* Scoreboards now work correctly with custom named entities.
* Scripting documentation tweaks and fixes:
** Removed extra spaces from the Scripting documentation to allow scripts to be copied and pasted more easily.
** Adjusted scripting documentation to use lower case letters for position parameters in {{cd|minecraft:pick_hit_result_changed}}.
** Updated the scripting documentation to show how to better use {{cd|initialize()}} function.
* {{cd|createEntity()}} documentation calls out the created entity type and identifier.
** There is now documentation for the manifest file.
** Tabs are now converted into 2 spaces when printing examples as HTML.
** {{cd|SpatialQuery}} documentation now mentions that the 3 optional parameters are all or nothing.
** Fixed a bug with scripting level component documentation not generating.
** Fixed a scripting crash that could occur when using {{cd|SpawnParticleInWorld}} events.
** Scripting {{cd|isValidEntity}} now correctly checks for valid entities only.
** Fixed incorrect results for {{cd|hasComponent}} on some entity components.
* Fixed an issue where terrain is often not adjusted to generated structures in villages, causing floating platforms.
* Fixed an issue where redundant dirt blocks could generate inside village structures.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game.
* Fixed a crash that was preventing iOS players from accepting game invitations.
* Ender dragon is no longer invisible when respawned. ({{bug|MCPE-41377}})
* Lectern models now support higher resolution textures.
* Custom entity spawn eggs now work correctly in dispensers. ({{bug|MCPE-40408}})
* Custom entities can now be used with the {{cd|1=[type=]}} command argument.
* Fixed the pillager spawn egg texture when it is placed in an item frame. ({{bug|MCPE-39530}})
* Players can no longer respawn with shields in their hands.
* Shields now appear correctly when being rapidly raised and lowered in third person view.
* Shields now always shake when blocking damage.
* Activated shield now animates properly when holding a crossbow. ({{bug|MCPE-41255}})
* Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning in a custom entity.
* Fixed a z-fighting texture issue on the zombie horse mane.
* Endermen no longer look like they are always holding something when attacking.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when adding a resource pack with a missing pack icon.
* Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading in some resource packs.
* Baby mobs no longer briefly appear adult-sized when being leashed.
* Worlds now appear in the correct order on Xbox One after restarting the game.
* Breeding animals no longer spawns two baby mobs.
* Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox One when copying worlds.
* Fixed a bug that prevented items from being crafted from the recipe book if the all items option was toggled.
* Fixed another issue that could cause the game to sometimes not load past the splash screen on some devices. ({{bug|MCPE-35078}})
* The wandering trader llama no longer renders with incorrect textures. ({{bug|MCPE-41162}})</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.10.0.4]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.10.0.4]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.10.0.4]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.10.0.4]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.10.0.4]]
[[ru:Beta 1.10.0.4 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.10.0.4]]