{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.11.0.4.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.11.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>March 7, 2019
|prevparent=1.10.1
|prev=beta 1.11.0.3
|next=beta 1.11.0.5
|nextparent=1.11.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.11.0.4''' is the third beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0]], released on March 7, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360024624412-Minecraft-Beta-1-11-0-4-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.11.0.4 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 7, 2019}}</ref> which revamps the [[trading]] system and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Chat]]'''
* A message "Press {{key|T}}, {{key|RETURN}}, or {{key|Gamepad Button8}} to open chat" is now sent when the player opens a world.

'''[[Raid]]s'''
* [[Pillager]]s and [[vindicator]]s now drop new loot during a raid.
* When a raid starts, a horn is heard by every player in the dimension, coming from the direction of the raid's spawn point.

'''[[Trading]]'''
* Revamped the trading system, for each [[villager]] type.
** An [[experience]] bar shows the player the villager's level and how many trades are available.
* Players now receive a discount from villager trades while they have the [[Hero of the Village]] status effect.

=== General ===
'''Options'''
* Added a screen for "Accessibility" in settings.
** Text-to-speech can be enabled for chat.
** UI screen reader can be enabled to say the name of controls and their current state.

'''[[Skin pack]]s'''
* When choosing a [[skin]] from a skin pack, the selected skin is now available between Bedrock devices using the same account.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bell]]s'''
* Can now be used to direct nearby villagers into their houses when rung.

'''[[Cartography table]]s'''
* Can now be used to lock [[map]]s with a [[glass pane]].
** Locked maps do not update to reflect explored areas or changes in the world. Unexplored areas remain unexplored.
** Locked maps cannot be extended but can still be copied.

'''[[Scaffolding]]'''
* Increased the amount of scaffolding that can be placed out from its initial support from 4 to 6.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Iron golem]]s'''
* Improved pathfinding.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Now resupply their trades when arriving at their job site.
* Now hide in houses during raids.
* Can no longer be traded with during a raid, and will emit sweat particles.
* Improved villager pathfinding.
* Shields can now be bought from armorer [[villager]]s.

'''[[Wandering trader]]s'''
* Are no longer only available through [[Experimental Gameplay]].
* No longer resupply trades, and despawn when out of trades.

'''[[Zombie villager]]s'''
* Now update to the new zombie villagers when not part of template worlds.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Village]]s'''
* Improved spawning and generation.
* Increased the radius for job site blocks, so villagers can get to them more often and are less angry.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* How to Play screen has now been updated with [[Village & Pillage]] tips.
* Updated the scaffolding guide in How to Play slightly, to change the diagram of how much scaffolding can be placed from its support.

'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* [[Hero of the Village]] can now be obtained by defeating a [[raid]], and lasts for three days.
* Added a use for the status effect, allowing a villager trading discount.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed the crash from the previous beta that could occur when re-joining a world while the ender dragon was in view. 
* Fixed a crash that occurred when opening the chest inside a taiga village fletcher's house.
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed the black screen that appeared after a suspend/resume on Android devices.
* Template worlds using custom villager trades no longer crash the game.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when using invalid characters on signs. ({{bug|MCPE-41671}})

'''General'''
* Windows 10 players with Minecraft installed on a different drive no longer get an error message saying that they are out of storage space, unless they are truly out of space. ({{bug|MCPE-32501}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Increased the visibility of the raid boss bar past the village bounds. 
* Hero of the Village is now granted for three in-game days instead of one after completing a raid. 
* Bells now ring in the preparation phase of raids. 
* Players no longer float around beds while sleeping. ({{bug|MCPE-41344}})
* Bad Omen now disappears after five in-game days, drinking milk, or dying. 

'''World generation'''
* Lily pads once again generate in the world. ({{bug|MCPE-42560}})
* Fixed some buildings in villages not containing loot inside their chests. 
* Fixed ground level blocks getting cut from underneath village structures. 
* Beds now more commonly generate in villages.

'''Mobs'''
* Villagers from 1.10 worlds are now properly converted to new villagers. 
* Villagers can no longer get stuck inside composters. 
* Villagers now actually follow proper etiquette and close doors behind them. ({{bug|MCPE-41170}})
* Villagers no longer spend too much time at their job sites. 
* Villager children no longer stay out playing too late.
* Villagers that the player is trading with no longer run and hide when a bell is rung until after the trade is complete. 
* Underwater mobs no longer spawn on land. ({{bug|MCPE-40783}})
* Sorted out the wandering trader's priorities so they won't get attacked as easily. 
* Raiding mobs now attack players and villagers if they are spotted on the way to a village. 
* Evokers now count towards the raid counter. 
* Fixed a white stripe that appeared on the librarian's shoulder. 
* Skeletons once again turn before shooting. 
* Tamed cats now lay on their sides when sleeping on a bed. ({{bug|MCPE-40726}})

'''Blocks'''
* Composters now have proper lighting. ({{bug|MCPE-42561}})
* Lanterns can once again be placed under stairs.
* Corrected the breaking particles for the grindstone. 
* Sounds now play for job site blocks when villagers are using them. 
* Fixed campfires not looking right when using HD textures.
* Using {{key|Ctrl}} + Pick block no longer creates a new bed with extra data attached. ({{bug|MCPE-42494}})

'''Items'''
* Banners can once again be copied in the crafting grid. ({{bug|MCPE-42534}})
* Banners can once again be seen by players joining a world and no longer cause a crash when viewed in the inventory. ({{bug|MCPE-42529}})

'''User interface'''
* The anvil output slot once again updates when removing items from the input slot. ({{bug|MCPE-42420}})
* Bad Omen status now shows remaining time displayed on the mob effects screen.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.4]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.4]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.11.0.4]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.4]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.11.0.4]]
[[ru:Beta 1.11.0.4 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.0.4]]