{{dangerous version|Many different actions and sounds can cause the game to crash when the Caves & Cliffs experiments is enabled.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-128985||Crash when attempting to do anything in worlds with the Caves & Cliffs option enabled|Fixed}}</ref>|type=crash|version=development|edition=Bedrock}}
{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.10.20 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.10.20.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.1020.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.1020.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.17.10.20<br>
|parent=1.17.10
|date='''Xbox, Windows 10, Android''': May 26, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.2
|prev=
|next=beta 1.17.10.21
|nextparent=1.17.11
}}
<onlyinclude>'''Beta 1.17.10.20''' is the first beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.10]], released on May 26, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360061498232-Minecraft-Beta-1-17-10-20-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.10.20 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=May 26, 2021}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Block of Quartz]], [[Crafting Table]], [[Polished Blackstone Bricks]], [[Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks]], and [[Sculk Sensor]]'''
* Changed the textures to match ''Java Edition''.

'''[[Rooted Dirt]]'''
* Rooted dirt texture is now randomly rotated, matching the behavior of the regular dirt block ({{bug|MCPE-123197}}).

=== Items ===
'''[[Dried Kelp]], [[Netherite Axe]], [[Netherite Boots]], [[Netherite Hoe]], [[Netherite Ingot]], [[Netherite Pickaxe]], and [[Netherite Sword]]'''
* Changed the texture to match ''Java Edition''.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Axolotl]]'''
* When fed with a bucket of tropical fish, it will now return a water bucket instead of a bucket ({{bug|MCPE-127382}}).
* Axolotl's hitbox is now smaller to match the size of the mob.
* Axolotls no longer move their tails while playing dead ({{bug|MCPE-123309}}).

'''[[Skeleton]]'''
* Skeletons now turn into strays after 20 seconds inside powder snow, instead of 45 seconds.

=== Non-mobs entities ===
'''[[End Crystal]]'''
* Changed the models to have three cubes again instead of two, and to match ''Java Edition''.

=== General ===
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Added a new accessibility icon in the Settings menu.

=== Technical ===
'''General'''
* Added {{cd|query.show_bottom}} - a query for determining whether or not the entity's bottom is rendered.
* Added {{cd|query.death_time}} - a query for determining the elapsed ticks since a mob started dying.
* Added {{cd|math.min_angle}} - a math expression for minimizing the angle magnitude (in degrees) into the range [-180, 180].

'''Gameplay'''
* Loot chests with Seed = 0 now correctly randomize if placed on the same coordinates.
** Note that pickblocking a Vanilla loot chest before opening it will now result in identical loot in each copy unless the player set the seed to 0 in the NBT.

'''Data Driven Mobs'''
* [[Ender dragon]] and [[end crystal]] rendering and animations are now fully data-driven.

'''Graphics'''
* Graphics hardware that supports a maximum D3D11 feature level of 9_3 or below are no longer supported.

'''Stability and Performance'''
* Added better error handling for JSON parsing. Also added several new content errors for item parsing as well as for loot tables.

'''Actors'''
* Incoming client-sync properties for newly seen types will properly register with client-side Actor Property Manager groups.

== Fixes ==
'''Vanilla Parity'''
* Thunderstorms now happen as often as on ''Java Edition'' ({{bug|MCPE-72798}}).

'''Axolotl'''
* Guardians and elder guardians now attack axolotls on sight.
* Drowned now attack axolotls on sight.

'''Azalea'''
* Azalea can now be bone-mealed when placed on clay.
* Using Pick Block on azalea leaves and flowering azalea leaves now results in the correct blocks being picked ({{bug|MCPE-128092}}).

'''Copper Ore'''
* Copper ore is now placed after other Overworld ores in the Creative inventory ({{bug|MCPE-119724}}).

'''Deepslate'''
* Deepslate is now placed after other stones in the Creative inventory ({{bug|MCPE-127592}}).

'''Glow Item Frame'''
* Glow item frame is now placed after regular item frame in the Creative inventory ({{bug|MCPE-117532}}).

'''Hanging Roots'''
* Hanging roots are now destroyed by water ({{bug|MCPE-121676}}, {{bug|MCPE-127677}}).

'''Lightning Rod'''
* Lightning rod no longer breaks falling blocks that land on it ({{bug|MCPE-116545}}).

'''Commands'''
* {{cmd|title clear}} now correctly clears the title and subtitle from the HUD ({{bug|MCPE-97636}}).

'''Dressing Room'''
* Profile screen reload button is now localized.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed split-screen players not able to rename items on anvils ({{bug|MCPE-108405}}).

'''Graphical'''
* Projectiles such as snowballs and eggs no longer cast shadows.

'''Items'''
* All dropped items now have a similar floating height.
* Data-driven items now swing faster when not targeting blocks ({{bug|MCPE-119702}}).
* Firework rockets obtained from {{cmd|replaceitem}} command now have a flight duration ({{bug|MCPE-109037}}).
* Firework stars obtained from {{cmd|replaceitem}} command now have proper color values ({{bug|MCPE-109037}}).

'''Lush Caves'''
* Small dripleaf now only drops itself when broken with shears.

'''Powder Snow'''
* Burning mobs can no longer destroy powder snow when the Mob Griefing gamerule is disabled.

'''User Interface'''
* Hotbar item tooltip duration now scales with the length of the tooltip's text.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.20]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.20]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.10.20]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.20]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.10.20]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.10.20 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.10.20]]