{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.05}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|image=Bedrock 1.6.0.5.png
|edition=Bedrock
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' June 27, 2018
|parent=1.6.0
|prevparent=1.5.3
|prev=beta 1.6.0.1
|next=beta 1.6.0.6
|nextparent=1.6.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.6.0.5''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.6.0]], released on June 27, 2018,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360005572371-Minecraft-Beta-1-6-0-5-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.6.0.5 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)}}</ref> which adds [[phantom membrane]]s and the [[Slow Falling]] status effect, and fixes several crashes and bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Arrow of Slow Falling]]'''
* Gives the player the Slow Falling status effect.

'''[[Phantom Membrane]]'''
* Dropped by [[phantom]]s.
* Used to repair [[elytra]].

'''[[Potion of Slow Falling]]'''
* Brewed with phantom membrane.
* Gives the player the Slow Falling status effect.
* Can be turned into a [[splash potion]] and [[lingering potion]].

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* {{EffectLink|Slow Falling}}
** Causes the player to descend at a much slower rate, and not take any damage when hitting the ground.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Elytra]]'''
* Now require [[phantom membrane]]s to be repaired in an [[anvil]] instead of [[leather]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Phantom]]s'''
* Now drop [[phantom membrane]]s.
* Increased [[health]] from {{hp|10}} to {{hp|20}}.
* Are now able to [[Damage#Drowning|drown]].

=== General ===
* When joining a world, the default game mode selected is now the personal game mode set to the [[player]].

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when placing renamed items in an anvil's output slot.
* Fixed mobs missing several limbs on the previous Android beta.
* Crouching on [[ladder]]s will no longer stop when opening the pause menu or inventory screen.
* [[Firework rocket]]s once again give the proper boost when using [[elytra]]. ({{bug|MCPE-30821}})
* [[Barrier]] blocks can now contain water.
* Field of view can once again be adjusted when the "FoV Can Be Altered by Gameplay" option is disabled. ({{bug|MCPE-32403}})
* [[Redstone dust]] now renders on the sides of glass blocks. ({{bug|MCPE-21542}})
* The [[ender dragon]] is no longer missing the texture on its neck when playing the Norse Mythology Mash-up Pack.
* Fixed the mining cracking animation being out of sync when mining from a boat.
* Fixed a couple of pixels on the phantom's texture.
* [[Phantom]]s are now considered undead mobs.
* Phantoms' eyes now stay visible when under the invisibility effect.
* Phantoms now fly up after spawning in [[Creative]] mode.
* Changes to the phantom flying animation.
* [[TNT]] exploding underwater no longer deals damage to players and other entities.
* [[Drowned]] now have a much easier time attacking players that are swimming above them.
* [[Kelp]] that is planted by players will now grow over time.
* Baby [[horse]]s, donkeys and mules can no longer be pushed through solid blocks.
* [[Creeper]]s no longer remain white or quickly flash when killed.
* Using '{{cmd|fill doors}}' now fills the chosen area with doors instead of air blocks.
* Fixed the Cancel button not appearing on Windows 10 devices when joining a cross-platform world.
* [[Kelp]] now mimics seagrass in its placement and can be placed on most blocks underwater. ({{bug|MCPE-33747}})
* Fixed a crash that occurred when players were spawning and the spawn point was getting set every tick.
* Land plants can no longer be placed underwater.
* Water bottle icons no longer have red liquid on Android devices.
* [[Guardian]]s no longer attack [[fish]].
* Visibility now increases over time when submerged in flowing water.
* Used chests can now be equipped to mules and llamas. ({{bug|MCPE-32152}})
* Swimming through certain waterlogged blocks no longer removes underwater fog. ({{bug|MCPE-33917}})
* Activating an end portal will now replace any blocks inside the portal. ({{bug|MCPE-28344}})
* Opening a book & quill on touch devices no longer causes blocks to break. ({{bug|MCPE-29752}})
* [[Elder guardian]]s now drop wet sponges when killed.
* Fixed floating rails that generated in mineshafts.
* Fixed certain variants of rails having an incorrect hitbox size.
* Fixed monster spawners appearing empty on converted Console Edition worlds.
* [[Dolphin]]s can no longer attack players through solid blocks.
* The Resistance effect will now protect against the Wither effect ({{bug|MCPE-21515}})
* Quick moving items from the hotbar to a container now works as intended. ({{bug|MCPE-19952}})
* Cloning containers no longer removes their custom names.
* Hitting the Enter key in the [[inventory]] no longer moves the cursor in/out of the text field or grabs/drops items.
* Particles from enchanted [[arrow]]s no longer drift in flowing water.
* Mobs no longer play a higher pitch sound effect when first spawned.
* Fixed texture packs having a placeholder icon on the Pack Validation screen on Android devices.
* Players constantly teleported with now behaves more consistently.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.5]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.5]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.6.0.5]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.6.0.5]]
[[nl:Bedrockeditie 1.6 build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.6.0.5]]
[[ru:Beta 1.6.0.5 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.6.0.5]]