{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v1.1.9
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = November 4, 2025
| client = [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.130.26|1.21.130.26]]
| prevparent = 1.1.0
| prev = 1.1.8
| next = 
| nextparent = 1.2.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v1.1.9''' is a minor release for [[Bedrock Editor]] released on November 4, 2025.<ref>{{cite|url=https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/271|title=Release 1.1.9 (1.21.130.26)|website=GitHub|date=November 4, 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/40853509126541-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-130-26|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.130.26|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 4, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added support for [[Jigsaw]] blocks to Block Inspector tool.
* Added Tag management section in the Structure details panel, where tags can be added and removed.
* Added {{cd|shrinkToIcon}} API property for {{cd|IButtonPropertyItem}} creation options.
* Added {{cd|maxVisibleEntries}} API property for {{cd|IDropdownPropertyItem}} to modify menu size.
* Added enabled API property for {{cd|IToggleGroupPropertyItemEntry}}.
* Added a "Prefab Template Manager" to help create, edit and delete prefab templates.
* Added a "Prefab Instance Editor" to allow placement of prefabs in the scene, and edit the properties of the instance.

== Changes ==
* Moved the brush shapes rotation settings into Rotation sub pane.
* Updated Editor to now attempt to load jigsaw files from Behavior Packs if they do not conflict with an existing Jigsaw collection name.
* Updated {{cd|ButtonPropertyItemVariant}} API enum to {{cd|ButtonVariant}}.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a bug that the previews position of repeater tool were displaced from the intended position.
* Fixed a bug that prevented the action bar selection menu from closing when pressing the {{key|Escape}} key.
* Fixed a bug that caused the default deleted hotbar to be re-added after re-entering a session.
* Fixed a bug that caused some cursor and brush tooltips to show incorrect key bindings.
* Fixed a bug that auto-save the keyboard binding after reset and reset all to the default.
* Fixed a bug that caused mob effects shortcut to not work in crosshair mode.
* Fixed a bug that caused tutorial message window and dimmer overlay to be misaligned.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|release}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 1.1.9]]