{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.17.10.21 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.17.10.21.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.17.1021.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.17.1021.70<br>
|parent=1.17.10
|date='''Xbox and Windows 10''': June 3, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.2
|prev=beta 1.17.10.20
|next=beta 1.17.10.22
|nextparent=1.17.11
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.17.10.21''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.17.10]], released on June 3, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4402347045645|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.17.10.21 (Xbox One/Windows 10)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=June 3, 2021}}</ref> which added more parity features from ''Java Edition'', and fixes bugs. It was not released on Android due to submission issues, but multiplayer is compatible with [[Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.20|the previous beta]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Azalea]] and [[Flowering Azalea]]'''
* Can be placed inside flower pots.

'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Glowing text on signs now has an outer glow, making text in dark colors more visible in the dark.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Goat]]s'''
* Tempted goats now move at the same speed as goats in ''Java Edition''.
* Goat fall damage reduction is now in parity with ''Java Edition''. (-10 reduced fall damage)

=== World generation ===
'''[[Bastion remnant]]s'''
* Chest loot has been changed.
** Loot overall was improved; rarer items had their weights increased and many item amounts were increased. Many pools had their rolls increased as well.
** Removed all "empty" loot entries.
** Most items with damage had their average durability increased.
** Added enchanted golden axes, golden carrots, enchanted golden apple and blocks of iron to various loot tables.
** Removed iron nuggets from treasure chests.
** Unenchanted diamond armor in treasure chests is no longer damaged.

=== Technical ===
'''Chunks'''
* Limits writing of chunks unless necessary. Chunks upgraded from older formats will not automatically save when loaded, but when modified (Through blocks or actors, for example) they will be marked for saving

'''Data-Driven Mobs'''
* The horse rendering and animations are now fully data-driven
* This work supports all horse variants (horse, mule, donkey, zombie horse, skeleton horse) and all horse versions including:
** v1 (engine version 1.2.5 and earlier)
** v2 (engine version 1.2.6 to 1.17.0)
** v3 (engine version 1.17.10 and onward). This will be a cleaner version of the v2 model, with less confusing bone naming

'''GameTest Framework'''
* Updates to how blocks are handled in APIs:
** {{cd|BlockType}}, {{cd|BlockPermutation}}, and {{cd|Block}} instances replace BlockState-based updating
* Exposed chest block component and Container
* Added location and velocity read-only properties to Entity
* {{cd|function createExplosion(location : Location, radius : number, explosionOptions : ExplosionOptions)}} 
** Creates an explosion
** {{cd|ExplosionOptions : class}} 
*** Provides additional configuration parameters for createExplosion
* {{cd|method triggerEvent(eventName : string)}}
** Triggers an event on an entity
* Added {{cd|thenExecuteFor}} to {{cd|GameTestSequence}}, which repeatedly calls the callback for the specified number of ticks

== Fixes ==
'''Stability'''
* Fixed a crash that occurred when breaking a block when the Caves & Cliffs experimental toggle was enabled ({{bug|MCPE-128985}}).

'''[[Diamond Ore]]'''
* Diamond ore now generates with the correct distribution again ({{bug|MCPE-127555}}).

'''[[Glow Lichen]]'''
* Glow lichen now only drops itself when broken with shears.

'''[[Commands]]'''
* Frosted ice can now be used in any command that accepts a block, such as {{cmd|setblock}} and {{cmd|testforblock}} ({{bug|MCPE-126741}}).

'''Data-Driven Items'''
* Updated documentation for 'DisplayNameItemComponent'.

'''[[Gameplay]]'''
* Disenchanting an item using the grindstone once again resets the enchantment cost penalty correctly ({{bug|MCPE-107211}}).

'''Glow [[Sign]]'''
* The text on glowing signs now has an outline ({{bug|MCPE-129123}}).
* Black text on signs can be lit by using a glow ink sac ({{bug|MCPE-128079}}).
* Tooltips are now present when holding ink sac and glow ink sac when using a controller.
* Ink sac and glow ink sac can no longer be used indefinitely on signs in Adventure mode.
* Player can no longer dye text on signs in Adventure mode ({{bug|MCPE-126489}}).

'''Graphics'''
* Underwater fog is once again dependent on biome ({{bug|MCPE-124266}}).

'''[[Items]]'''
* Pumpkins are once again accepted by farmer villagers regardless of their rotation when mined ({{bug|MCPE-105540}}).

'''[[Jukebox]]'''
* Jukebox now only ejects disk into non-solid blocks ({{bug|MCPE-85635}}).

'''[[Mobs]]'''
* Baby horses, including their variants, are now taller and no longer exhibit Z-fighting from their legs ({{bug|MCPE-92462}}).
* Amphibious mobs no longer get stuck when pathing over slabs and daylight sensors.
* Attacked glow squids no longer go dark only for aggressor in multiplayer sessions.
* Villagers spawned from villager spawners on Marketplace worlds that were created after version 1.11 now correctly spawn as V2 villagers.

'''[[Goat]]'''
* Goats can now continue ramming when on slime block and honey blocks.

'''[[Strays]]'''
* Strays no longer drop wither skeleton skulls when killed by charged creepers ({{bug|MCPE-35876}}).

'''[[Bastion]]'''
* Bastion loot now closely matches Java Edition ({{bug|MCPE-104330}}).

'''[[Player]]'''
* Players can no longer swim through the air under a platform, though it looked pretty cool ({{bug|MCPE-48958}}).

'''[[Sea Turtle]]s'''
* Baby sea turtles no longer despawn after being hatched ({{bug|MCPE-70664}}).

'''User Interface'''
* The "Reset to Default" button in the Accessibility settings now resets the Text Background Opacity slider.
* Fixed a typo in the "Loom" section of "How to Play" ({{bug|MCPE-128735}}).
* The counters on empty tabs of the Play screen now display zero instead of an empty, grey box ({{bug|MCPE-110535}}).</onlyinclude>.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.21]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.17.10.21]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.17.10.21]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.17.10.21]]
[[ru:Beta 1.17.10.21 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.17.10.21]]