{{DEFAULTSORT:Bedrock Edition 1.13.0.02}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
| edition = Bedrock
| type = Beta
| internal=
'''Windows''': 1.13.2.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.13.2.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.13.0.2<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.13.0.2.png
| parent = 1.13.0
| date = '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>July 10, 2019
| prevparent = 1.12.1
| prev = beta 1.13.0.1
| next = beta 1.13.0.3
| nextparent = 1.13.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.13.0.2''' is the second beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]], released on July 10, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360030455372|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.13.0.2 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=July 10, 2019}}</ref> which adds a new accessibility option and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Added the ability to add new blocks and items using add-ons, instead of replacing already existing blocks.{{verify|edition=bedrock|type=change}}

'''Accessibility'''
* Added an option to disable the chat prompt after entering a world.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur while downloading multiple marketplace items at the same time on some iOS devices. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when villagers tried to pathfind. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when exiting the game after a multiplayer session. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to join a server. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when using a phantom spawn egg on a mob spawner block. 
* Fixed a crash that could occur when loading in ocean monuments.

'''Performance'''
* Fixed a drop in performance when flying with elytra in the End.

'''General'''
* Corrected the arm movement on Oculus Rift immersive mode. 
* Fixed various text to speech reader issues.
* Chat instructions no longer appear on-screen each time the player travels through a portal. ({{bug|MCPE-45073}})
* Fixed the spacing of some of the menu buttons.
* Fixed sneaking while sleeping bug.
* Fixed the positioning of several held items.
* Fixed the hand placement for various Marketplace skins when holding an item. 
* Structure block wireframe toggle now properly hides and shows the wireframe.
* Fixed zombie pigman sword position.
* Fixed the camera position when the player sleeps.
* Fixed elytra position for Marketplace skins that don’t use the standard humanoid model. 
* Structure block load mode now has include entities and remove blocks options.
* Players no longer lose items when moving stacks of items into a cartography table.
* Fixed some text characters with accents showing up as spaces instead. ({{bug|MCPE-47908}})
* Fixed the hand position when switching from item to bare hand in first person.
* Adjusted the position of the player's arms while holding maps for certain Marketplace skins with short and long arms. 
* Fixed an issue where using the Education Edition toggle in a world would also change the menus and options. ({{bug|MCPE-47952}})

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed issues related to unloaded chunks that could appear in Realms and local worlds.  ({{bug|REALMS-1553}})
* Fixed an issue where the player could get stuck in the loading screen when trying to join a world or use a nether portal. ({{bug|MCPE-44816}})
* Leaves collected with silk touch now stack correctly with other leaves of the same type. ({{bug|MCPE-32347}})
* Parrots now sit correctly on a player's shoulder when passing by. 
* Jukeboxes now stop playing music after being broken.
* The wither's health bar no longer disappears during the fight if the player moves away. ({{bug|MCPE-40881}})
* Fixed the default recipe for beds.
* Joining a Realm through the 'joinable friends' list now loads the Realms UI rather than the normal multiplayer UI. ({{bug|MCPE-47731}})
* Eating when using a nether portal no longer causes the player to teleport to a random location. ({{bug|MCPE-39147}}) 

'''Mobs'''
* Foxes no longer run away from players that are sneaking.
* Foxes no longer run away instead of being tempted. 
* Foxes now move at the same speed in Bedrock and Java. 
* Added back the blue effect from charged creepers to wither shields. 
* Foxes are no longer tempted by the player holding food. 
* Breeding two red foxes in a snowy biome now makes a red Fox baby. 
* Fixed fox nap goal cooldown. 
* Foxes no longer drown themselves while trying to catch and eat fish. 
* Villagers can now reach their job sites correctly. ({{bug|MCPE-47884}})
* Trusted foxes now correctly lose aggro after getting revenge.

'''Blocks'''
* Horizontal wood blocks now drop the correct version of block.
* TNT can now be crafted from red sand as well as normal sand.

'''User interface'''
* Fixed duplicated "Sign In" messages that were overlapping.
* Removed duplicated download progress bar.

'''Add-ons and scripting engine'''
* Blocks no longer stutter while falling when a script uses {{cd|getBlocks}}. 
* Scripting: Ticking areas now have a property showing whether they are fully loaded or not. 
* Custom rideable entities now show the correct action hint when added.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.2]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.2]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.13.0.2]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.13.0.2]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.13.0.2]]
[[ru:Beta 1.13.0.2 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.13.0.2]]