{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.18.0.25 PatchNotes.jpg
|image2=Bedrock 1.18.0.25.png
|type=Beta
|internal=
'''Windows''': 1.18.25.0<br>
'''Xbox One''': 1.18.25.70<br>
'''Android''': 1.18.0.25<br>
|parent=1.18.0
|date='''Xbox, Windows, Android''': November 4, 2021
|prevparent=1.17.41
|prev=beta 1.18.0.24
|next=beta 1.18.0.27
|nextparent=1.18.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.18.0.25''' is the sixth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.0]], released on November 4, 2021,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4412728960141|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.18.0.25 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=feedback.minecraft.net|date=November 4, 2021}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

This version was reuploaded around a few hours later on Windows to fix the version having no RenderDragon rendering engine.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-147349||Render dragon is gone|Cannot Reproduce}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== World Generation ===
'''[[Azalea tree]]s'''
* Can now generate in shallow water.

'''[[Deep Warm Ocean]]'''
* No longer generate naturally.

'''[[Ocean ruin]]s and [[Shipwreck]]s'''
* Now generate in lower frequency.

=== General ===
'''Android '''
* The game has temporarily been reverted from API 30 to API 29
* Now the players will lose their data if they uninstall Minecraft, unless checking the box indicating that want to keep the data.
** This is due to Google's new API requirements.

'''User Interface'''
* Updated the "out of storage" message

== Fixes ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Loading older worlds will no longer cause chunks to be empty ({{bug|MCPE-98789}}).
* Fixed an issue that could prevent some music tracks from playing in the Nether ({{bug|MCPE-146266}}).
* Fixed Leaf Blocks not remaining transparent when surrounded by partial blocks such as Buttons or Slabs ({{bug|MCPE-139213}}, {{bug|MCPE-53731}}).
* Fixed face culling of the block below a Leaf Block, fixing an x-ray effect.
* Fixed an issue where the Shield would get locked to the player's offhand slot in the inventory screen when opening the inventory screen while crouching ({{bug|MCPE-146003}}).
* Fixed an issue with some Marketplace packs in beta builds spawning the player in the wrong location.
* Fixed a bug that could cause double chests to split and become unusable ({{bug|MCPE-146983}}).

'''World Generation'''
* Frozen biomes no longer generate Ice pillars below Y=0 on worlds with updated chunks ({{bug|MCPE-125128}}).
* Ocean ruins and shipwrecks are now generated in lower frequency ({{bug|MCPE-143478}}).
* Azalea trees no longer generate underwater ({{bug|MCPE-125919}}).
* Azalea trees can now generate in shallow water.
* Rooted Dirt can no longer generate without an Azalea tree ({{bug|MCPE-140867}}).
* Vanilla Parity: Removed Deep Warm Ocean from biome placement ({{bug|MCPE-147051}}).
* Fixed pillars of Dripstone that could previously be generated on the surface of the Overworld ({{bug|MCPE-139877}}).
* Fixed an issue to prevent Small Dripleaf blocks from being placed inside Lava blocks.

'''Android'''
* Players with existing external storage will be migrated to the new location on start up. They can still play if migration fails by closing the results window ({{bug|MCPE-144801}}, {{bug|MCPE-144776}}, {{bug|MCPE-144806}}).

'''Technical'''
* Fixed content error when Molang expression has no tokens to only fire when 'min_engine_version' is 1.17.40 or higher.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.25]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.25]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.18.0.25]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.18.0.25]]
[[ru:Beta 1.18.0.25 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.18.0.25]]