{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.8.0.13.png
|type=Beta
|date= '''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:''' November 1, 2018
|parent=1.8.0
|prevparent=1.7.1
|prev=beta 1.8.0.11
|next=beta 1.8.0.14
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.8.0.13''' is the fourth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0]], released on November 1, 2018,<ref>{{link|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360018908951-Minecraft-Beta-1-8-0-13-Xbox-One-Windows-10-Android-|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.8.0.13 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 1, 2018}}</ref> which adds a recipe for undyed shulker boxes and fixes several bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Shulker box]]es'''
* Added a recipe for undyed shulker boxes.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Panda]]s'''
* Pandas will now more quickly return to their normal behavior after following a [[player]] holding [[bamboo]].

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|gamerule}}'''
* Only players with Operator permissions can use the command now.

'''{{cmd|scoreboard}}'''
* The command to set scoreboard objectives names is now recognized.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could happen when attempting to make a marketplace purchase.
* Fixed a bug where template text colors could interfere with other UI messages.
* Fixed the bug that caused items to show the wrong texture after loading a new texture pack. ({{bug|MCPE-38302}})
* Fixed an instance where a world save could become corrupt and disappear from the world list.
* Improved performance on some devices with less available memory.
* Fixed tamed cats having disconnected limbs whilst sitting. ({{bug|MCPE-38292}})
* Empty [[monster spawner]]s no longer show fire particles.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when exporting with the structure block.
* Improved the [[marketplace]] search results when using filters.
* [[Ocelot]]s' legs no longer levitate when sneaking.
* [[Sheep]] now move their heads correctly when looking at the [[player]]. ({{bug|MCPE-38184}})
* Fixed some missing marketplace pack icons.
* Adjusted the climbing speed slightly so players no longer experience a flashing screen when climbing scaffolding
* Fixed several related graphical issues that could occur when resuming the game
* Optimized marketplace images for certain devices.
* Fixed witch texture in Elf Islands Heroes World pack.
* Fixed the [[husk]] model in Candyworld marketplace map.
* Fixed the position of bows held by mobs in the Papercraft Adventure marketplace map.
* Replaced the missing [[mooshroom]] legs in the Adventurer's Dreams marketplace map.
* Fixed the geometry for ocelots that have custom models.
* [[Saddle]]s are no longer invisible in the Adventurer's Dreams marketplace map.
* Fixed the rotation of the Llama's legs in various marketplace maps.
* Fixed the head size and position of the Banshee Nightmares in A Nightmare in Candyworld marketplace map.
* [[Mob]]s now sit at the correct height when riding other mobs in the Stranded in Space marketplace map.
* Fixed models in the CampCraft marketplace world template.
* [[Evoker]] no longer has disjointed arms in the Jurassic Depths world.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.13]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.13]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.8.0.13]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.8.0.13]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.8.0.13]]
[[ru:Beta 1.8.0.13 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.8.0.13]]