{{Infobox version
|edition=Bedrock
|image=Bedrock 1.11.0.7.png
|type=Beta
|parent=1.11.0
|date='''Xbox One, Windows 10, Android:'''<br>March 20, 2019
|prevparent=1.10.1
|prev=beta 1.11.0.5
|next=beta 1.11.0.8
|nextparent=1.11.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.11.0.7''' is the fifth beta version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0]], released on March 20, 2019,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360025560511|title=Minecraft Beta - 1.11.0.7 (Xbox One/Windows 10/Android)|date=March 20, 2019}}</ref> which adds an on screen animation when acquiring the [[Bad Omen]] and [[Hero of the Village]] [[status effects]] and changes the crafting recipe for the [[cartography table]], [[fletching table]], and [[smithing table]].

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Skin packs]]'''
* When choosing a [[skin]] from a skin pack, the selected skin now roams between Bedrock devices using the same account.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Cartography table]]s, [[fletching table]]s and [[smithing table]]s'''
* Changed crafting recipe.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Raid]]s'''
* A message is now displayed if a raid expires after two in-game days.
* [[Vindicator]]s can now break [[door]]s during raids.

'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* Added new animation popups when acquiring [[Bad Omen]] and [[Hero of the Village]].

'''[[Trading]]'''
* Right-clicking on a trade now auto-trades items.

== Fixes ==
'''Crashes'''
* Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when stepping into a nether portal at the same time as a phantom. ({{bug|MCPE-43115}})
* An evocation fang without an owner no longer crashes the game when it tries to deal damage. ({{bug|MCPE-43042}})
* Downloading missing resource packs when creating a new world no longer makes the game unresponsive.

'''Performance'''
* Improved performance on the villager trading screen.

'''General'''
* Fixed a lot of accessibility features and text to speech issues.
* Disabling the "Multiplayer Game" setting now applies when the world is packaged as a world template.

'''Gameplay'''
* Fixed players falling through blocks at around 65K blocks on the X or Z axes. ({{bug|MCPE-39299}})
* Raid loading is no longer canceled if a player saves and quits.
* Ringing a bell no longer locks players out of trading with villagers.

'''Mobs'''
* Reduced the range of drowned attacking the nearest player.
* Villagers heads no longer clip through walls while sleeping. ({{bug|MCPE-42478}})
* Adjusted some incorrect prices for villager trades.
* Patrols can no longer stack up in the same spawn area.
* Patrols now avoid spawning near players if they are in a village.
* Villagers no longer lose their job site association with smokers and blast furnaces while they are smelting.
* Ravagers now move faster when moving into a village during raids.
* Ravagers can no longer deal damage to villagers and other mobs from behind walls.
* Pillagers can now spawn inside the pillager outpost structure.

'''Blocks'''
* Fixed particles not appearing while mining blocks.
* Cobblestone slabs are no longer slabs and blocks at the same time. ({{bug|MCPE-42352}})
* Lingering potions no longer cause bells to repeatedly ring.
* Composters can no longer drop an endless amount of bone meal when pushed by pistons. ({{bug|MCPE-42429}})

'''Items'''
* Fixed some items having invisible bits when placed in item frames. ({{bug|MCPE-42415}})
* Damaged tools can once again be smelted to recover gold/iron ingots. ({{bug|MCPE-42533}})
* Cacti can once again be smelted into green dye. ({{bug|MCPE-42497}})

'''User interface'''
* Updated the How to Play page on scaffolding to show the change to the length of scaffolds.

'''Add-ons / script engine'''
* Fixed inconsistent spawn eggs for villagers and zombie villagers for template worlds that require the original entities.
* Fixed pivot point changes to Endermen made with add-ons.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.7]]
[[es:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.7]]
[[fr:Édition Bedrock bêta 1.11.0.7]]
[[ja:Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.7]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock beta 1.11.0.7]]
[[ru:Beta 1.11.0.7 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.11.0.7]]