{{Infobox version
| edition = bedrock
| type = Preview
| internal = '''Windows, Xbox''': 1.21.5028.0<br>'''Android, iOS, iPadOS''': 1.21.50.28<br>
| image = Bedrock 1.21.50.28 PatchNotes.jpeg
| image2 = Bedrock 1.21.50.28.png
| build = 29090481
| editorver = 0.8.0
| versioncode = '''Android''':<br />
952105068 (armeabi-v7a, 34)<br />
962105068 (x86, 34)<br />
972105068 (arm64-v8a, 34)<br />
982105068 (x86_64, 34)<br />
| date = November 7, 2024
| server = 1.21.50.28
| serverdl = '''Server'''<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-win-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.28.zip Windows]<br>[https://www.minecraft.net/bedrockdedicatedserver/bin-linux-preview/bedrock-server-1.21.50.28.zip Linux]
| parent = 1.21.50
| prevparent = 1.21.44
| prev = Preview 1.21.50.26
| next = Preview 1.21.50.29
| nextparent = 1.21.51
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Beta 1.21.50.28''' (ChromeOS, Android) or '''Preview 1.21.50.28''' (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox, PlayStation) is the sixth beta and fifth ''Preview'' version for [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.50]], released on November 7, 2024,<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31693342053517-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-50-28|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.50.28|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=November 7, 2024}}</ref> which fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Creaking Heart]]'''
*Adjusted the frequency of ambient sounds emitted by creaking hearts to better align with {{JE}}.
*Creaking Heart breaking and placing sounds are now quieter.

'''[[Eyeblossom]]'''
*Closed eyeblossoms no longer poison bees.
*The poison effect from open eyeblossoms now also damages bees while they are within the block, rather than only upon exiting.
*Reduced the duration of the poison effect applied by open eyeblossoms.
*Adjusted the frequency of ambient sounds emitted by eyeblossoms to better align with {{JE}}.

'''[[Pale Hanging Moss]]'''
*Adjusted the frequency of ambient sounds emitted by pale hanging moss to better align with {{JE}}.

'''[[Resin]]'''
*Added more breaking sounds for resin.

'''[[Slate]]'''
*Removed from the [[creative inventory]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Bee]]s'''
*Bees can no longer be tempted or pollinate within closed eyeblossoms.
*Feeding bees open eyeblossoms now applies the poison effect.

'''[[Creaking]]'''
*Creaking now plays 4 different sway sounds.
*Creaking now plays new attack sounds.

=== Items ===
'''[[Resin Brick]]'''
*Resin Bricks are now used to apply the resin armor trim instead of resin clumps.

'''[[Suspicious Stew]]'''
*The effect durations of Suspicious Stew have been adjusted to be the same across versions.

=== General ===
'''UI'''
*Items in a [[bundle]] tooltip now have a gray background.
*[[Screenshot]]s: Added the ability to Feature and Showcase screenshots for others to see when they visit player's Profile. Added ability to set custom world thumbnail from screenshots.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Feature]]s'''
*The following feature types are now unable to place internal-only features:
**{{cd|minecraft:aggregate_feature}}
**{{cd|minecraft:snap_to_surface_feature}}
**{{cd|minecraft:surface_relative_threshold_feature}}
**{{cd|minecraft:weighted_random_feature}}

=== Technical ===
'''Entity Components'''
*Added the {{cd|minecraft:ignore_cannot_be_attacked}} component and moved the filter from {{cd|minecraft:cannot_be_attacked}} to it. This allows content to have custom mobs which bypass the {{cd|cannot_be_attacked}} component (for example the one on the [[ghast]]) without requiring a modification of the attacked mob's settings.
*The {{Cd|code=minecraft:angry}} component now has a new field: 
**{{Cd|code=broadcast_anger_when_dying}} defines whether an entity should broadcast anger to entities of the same type if killed in one hit. This is set to {{Cd|code=true}} by default.
**This change was not mentioned in the changelog.

== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Beta APIs", "Upcoming Creator Features", and "Focus Target" experimental toggles.
=== Additions ===
==== Technical ====
'''[[API]]'''
*{{cd|CameraFixedBoomOptions}}
**Added property {{cd|entityOffset?: Vector3}}.
*Added new {{cd|CameraTargetOptions}} parameter inside {{cd|setCamera}} for {{cd|beta}}. This can be used to modify the {{cd|minecraft:free}} preset if the Focus Target experimental camera toggle is enabled.

'''Cameras'''
*Added content error when trying to target an entity when not on a free camera.

'''UI'''
*Added support for input glyph replacement for signed books. For example, using input string {{cd|:_input_key.jump:}} will be replaced with "JUMP" when using keyboard, or an emoji in case of using a gamepad.

=== Changes ===
==== Technical ====
'''API'''
*Moved {{cd|BlockFillOptions}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|v1.16.0}}.
*Moved {{cd|UnloadedChunksError}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|v1.16.0}}.
*Dimension
**Moved {{cd|containsBlock(volume: BlockVolumeBase, filter: BlockFilter, allowUnloadedChunks?: boolean): boolean}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|v1.16.0}}.
**Moved {{cd|getBlocks(volume: BlockVolumeBase, filter: BlockFilter, allowUnloadedChunks?: boolean): ListBlockVolume}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|v1.16.0}}.
**Moved {{cd|fillBlocks(volume: BlockVolumeBase, block: BlockPermutation | BlockType | string, options?: BlockFillOptions): ListBlockVolume;}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|v1.16.0}}.
*{{cd|ItemUseOnBeforeEvent}}
**Move property {{cd|readonly isFirstEvent: boolean}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|v1.16.0}}.
*{{cd|ItemUseOnAfterEvent}}
**Move property {{cd|readonly isFirstEvent: boolean}} from {{cd|beta}} to {{cd|v1.16.0}}.

'''Block Components'''
*Modified {{cd|ambient_occlusion}} field for {{cd|minecraft:material_instances}} component to be a float value, requires Upcoming Creator Features experiment.

'''Cameras'''
*Tracking a target using the free camera preset: optional {{cd|tracking_radius}} float value for setting a listening radius for a target entity

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=1.21.50.28 Preview
|;old
|68327|Other zombified piglins aggro when you one-hit kill one of them
|131325|Rain/snow sometimes does not visually match the actual weather
|156469|Opaque mangrove leaves have an inconsistent texture
|169375|Ravager doesn't destroy plants added since 1.19
|170516|Mangrove leaves don't use separate opaque textures
|176933|Some of the newer blocks' sounds are much louder than other blocks
|178719|Copper grates have glitched rendering with fluids underneath them.
|184406|Player's camera can get stuck when leaving a boat after interacting with an interface
|185960|Trial spawners that have had spawn eggs used on them revert to their initial state after their cooldown expires
|;previous
|187373|The Pale Moss Carpet Decoration Vines don't have proper ambient occlusion and face dimming
|187539|Pale Garden weather fog color is incorrect
|187566|Pale moss carpet with vines Z-fights upon being mined
|187696|Slate appears in Creative Inventory with Education toggle off
|187697|Resin drops from creaking hearts are not seemingly affected by Fortune
|187713|Jumping on resin blocks sounds like stone
|187759|Eyeblossoms do not change their state when snowlogged
|187802|Suspicious stew gives different durations of Blindness for Eyeblossom and Azure Bluet
|187806|The textures for Resin, Nether, Red, and Clay Bricks are misaligned.
|188088|Creaking Heart uses stone jump and land sounds
|otherissuescount=16}}
'''Other'''
*The orientation of the pale oak leaves texture is no longer randomized for each block.
*Decorated pots no longer activate observers on world load.
*Sculk sensors now detect Eyeblossoms opening and closing.
*Fixed all skull block variants being turned into {{cd|skeleton_skull}} when opening a world-template version locked below 1.21.40 or structures. Note, this fix will not apply to already overwritten chunks.
*The creaking will no longer sometimes phase through blocks if you are looking at it far away.
*Magma cube model part UVs no longer overlap each other.
*Fixed a crash on several platforms when navigating back to Realms Stories after inviting a player on the manage members screen.
*Fall & step sound events for sponge, wet sponge, creaking heart, resin brick and resin blocks changed to "player".
*Bundle tooltip correctly appears after being placed from the cursor.
*Gamepad tooltips are now correct when hovering the crafting output in inventory screen and crafting table Screen with a bundle on the cursor.
*Managing to kill a wolf, bee, or silverfish in one hit no longer angers nearby mobs of the same type.
*Head blocks can now be placed on the side of blocks even if they lack a supporting block below them.
*The game no longer crashes if a mob attacks with an item that breaks during the attack.
*Fixed a bug where vanilla items with the {{cd|minecraft:block_placer}} component had the wrong icon on split-screen clients.
*Fixed an API script processing error that could result in an infinite loop.
*Fixed a bug where {{cd|Dimension.fillBlocks}} would set blocks outside of the ticking area when {{cd|ignoreChunkBoundErrors}} was set to {{cd|true}}.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition 1.21.50 betas]]
[[de:Bedrock Edition beta 1.21.50.28]]
[[pt:Edição Bedrock Preview 1.21.50.28]]
[[uk:Preview 1.21.50.28 (Bedrock Edition)]]
[[zh:基岩版1.21.50.28]]