{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = v0.9.0
| edition = Editor
| type =
| date = 
;Preview: February 26, 2025
;Stable: March 25, 2025
| client = 
;Preview: [[Bedrock Edition Preview 1.21.70.25|1.21.70.25]]
;Stable: [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.70|1.21.70]]
| prevparent = 0.8.0
| prev = 0.8.9
| next = 0.9.1
| nextparent = 1.0.0
}}
'''Bedrock Editor v0.9.0''', also known as the '''Realms Update''', is the second beta release for the [[Bedrock Editor]] released on February 26, 2025, which adds Realms integration and fixes bugs.<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/224</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/34570334565901-Minecraft-Beta-Preview-1-21-70-25|title=Minecraft Beta & Preview - 1.21.70.25|website=Minecraft Feedback|date=February 26, 2025}}</ref> It was released to [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.70|stable 1.21.70]] on March 25, 2025<ref>https://github.com/Mojang/minecraft-editor/discussions/228</ref>.

== Additions ==
'''[[Realms]]'''
* Added Realms integration.
** Users can now publish their Editor project directly to Realms.
** Users can download their Realms world.

'''[[Structure]]s'''
* Added better management of Structures:
** Added the ability to rename a structure.
** Added the ability to delete a structure.
** Added the ability to duplicate a structure.
** Added the ability to rename the file/unique name.
** Added the ability to change the namespace. 

'''Others'''
* Added the Grid Repeat feature to the Repeater tool, which includes both Uniform and Separate repeat types.
* Added visualization for the first layer added/removed in the extrude tool.

== Changes ==
* Updated the default flyspeed to 4.0 while using Editor.
* Updated {{cd|IPropertyPane.addTable}} API function to {{cd|IPropertyPane.addDataTable}}.
* Updated {{cd|IBlockListPropertyItem}} and rename {{cd|ITablePropertyItem}} to {{cd|IDataTablePropertyItem}} APIs.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed missing air and sugarcane block images.
* Fixed a bug that would sometimes cause the refresh button to crash Editor.
* Fixed a bug that caused farms to be placed near unloaded areas.
* Fixed a bug that prevented slider to be visually updated for {{cd|INumberPropertyItem.updateLimits}} API function.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Editor versions|beta}}

[[pt:Bedrock Editor 0.9.0]]
[[ru:0.9.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]
[[uk:0.9.0 (Bedrock Editor)]]