{{redirect|Brain|a type of coral|Coral}}
{{joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
|group=South
|1-1=Big Brain.png
|group2=West
|2-1=Big Brain (W).png
|group3=North
|3-1=Big Brain (N).png
|group4=East
|4-1=Big Brain (E).png
|group5=South (facing bottom)
|5-1=Big Brain (S) (facing NWU).png
| renewable = Yes
| stackable = No
| rarity = Potato
| tool = Axe
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = Yes
| light = No
| transparent = Yes
| invimage = Big Brain
}}
A '''big brain''' is a [[block]] in [[24w14potato]] used to obtain [[potatoes of knowledge]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
A big brain can be broken using anything, but an [[axe]] is the fastest. Big brains always drop themselves and a potato of knowledge when mined.
{{Breaking row|horizontal=1|Big brain|Axe|hidecopper=1}}

=== Crafting ===
{{Crafting
|A1 = Poisonous Potato
|B1 = Poisonous Potato
|C1 = Poisonous Potato
|A2 = Poisonous Potato
|B2 = Zombie Head
|C2 = Poisonous Potato
|A3 = Poisonous Potato
|B3 = Poisonous Potato
|C3 = Poisonous Potato
|Output = Big Brain
|ignoreusage = 1
}}

== Usage ==
=== Potatoes of knowledge ===
Big brains absorb nearby [[experience orb]]s. When broken, a big brain drops a [[potato of knowledge]] with a knowledge amount equal to how much experience it absorbed (if it didn't absorb anything, potato of knowledge still drops, with 0 knowledge). Maximum possible amount stored in a single potato of knowledge is equal to 1000 experience points; if big brain absorbs this much experience, a potato of knowledge with 1000 experience is dropped by it automatically, without breaking the block.

=== Piston interactivity ===
Big brains cannot be pushed or pulled by pistons.

=== Note blocks ===
Big brains can be placed under [[note block]]s to produce "bass" sounds.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|spritetype=block
|displayname=Big Brain
|blocktags=mineable/axe
|showblocktags=1
|nameid=big_brain
|generatetranslationkeys=1
|foot=1}}

=== Block states ===
{{see also|Block states}}

{{bst|facing|north|east,north,south,west|The direction the big brain is facing|foot=1}}

=== Block data ===
{{see also|Block entity format}}
A big brain has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}} Block entity data
** {{nbt inherit/blockentity}}
** {{nbt|int|amount}}: The amount of experience stored in this big brain.
** {{nbt|int|delay}}: An integer that oscillates between 5 and 1 (inclusive) by decreasing by 1 every tick. Experience orbs can enter this big brain only when <code>delay</code> is 1.
</div>

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Manufactured blocks]]

[[ja:Big Brain]]
[[ko:큰 뇌]]
[[zh:大脑]]