{{about|the enchantment|the property of [[blocks]]|Blast Resistance}}
{{for|other uses|Protection (disambiguation)}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = IV
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Helmet|link=Helmet}}{{ItemSprite|Chestplate|link=Chestplate}}{{ItemSprite|Leggings|link=Leggings}}{{ItemSprite|Boots|link=Boots}}{{ItemSprite|Turtle Shell|link=Turtle Shell}}
| weight = 2
| id = blast_protection
| incompat =
* [[Fire Protection]]
* [[Projectile Protection]]
* [[Protection]]
}}
'''Blast Protection''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[armor]] that reduces damage taken from [[explosion]]s and [[firework]]s and increases [[explosion knockback resistance]].

== Obtaining ==
Blast Protection can be obtained from [[enchanting table]]s, drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]]{{only|bedrock}}, books obtained by [[fishing]], librarian [[villager]]s, and in the following structure loot chests: [[desert pyramid]]s, [[stronghold]]s, [[ocean ruins]], [[ancient cities]], [[woodland mansion]]s, [[pillager outpost]]s, [[mineshaft]]s, [[monster room]]s, [[jungle pyramid]]s, and from vaults in [[trial chambers]].

== Usage ==
Blast Protection reduces the damage the user takes from all explosions, including, but not limited to:
*[[Fireball]]s shot by [[ghast]]s
*[[Creepers]]/[[charged creeper]]s
*[[TNT]] 
*[[Bed]]s/[[respawn anchor]]s
*[[End crystal]]s
*[[Wither]] and [[Wither#Wither Skull|wither skull]]s
*[[Firework rocket]]s
*Any [[damage type]] in the <code>minecraft/tags/damage_type/is_explosion</code> [[Tag#Damage type tags|damage tag]]

The formula for damage reduction by explosions is {{cd|(8 × ''level'')%}}, meaning that for every additional level another 8% of the damage is negated. The highest level (Blast Protection IV) absorbs 32% of the damage inflicted by any explosion.

{{IN|Java}}, Blast Protection has the side effect of reducing knockback created from explosions by {{cd|(15 × ''level'')%}}, stacking with multiple armor pieces. This also includes the knockback effect from [[wind charge]]s and the [[Wind Burst]] enchantment.

Damage reduction from [[Protection]], [[Fire Protection]], [[Feather Falling]], Blast Protection and [[Projectile Protection]] stacks up to an upper limit cap of 80% (see [[Armor#Enchantments|armor enchantments]]). Any further damage reduction that would normally be applied is instead ignored. This cap can be reached with 10 combined levels of Blast Protection on the player's armor, or by combining 12 levels of Protection with 4 levels of Blast Protection.

== Incompatibilities ==
[[Protection]], Blast Protection, [[Fire Protection]] and [[Projectile Protection]] are mutually exclusive. Attempting to combine these enchantments with an [[anvil]] deletes the enchantment in the upgrade slot and replaces it with the enchantment in the sacrifice slot. However, if [[commands]] are used to force two or more of these enchantments on the same item, the effects stack. But when the total of the EPF provided by the protection enchantments surpasses 20, the rest of these enchantments will no longer directly reduce the damage.

== Data values ==

=== ID ===

{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=blast_protection
|displayname=Blast Protection
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=blast_protection
|displayname=Blast Protection
|id=3
|translationkey=enchantment.protect.explosion
|foot=1}}

== Videos ==
{{yt|U1K_ni3wWuY|align=inline}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.0|dev=Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4|Added Blast Protection.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w02a|Protection enchantments are no longer mutually exclusive.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w08a|Blast Protection enchantment is now functional for horses when added to horse armor in creative mode.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14.3|dev=Pre-Release 2|Protection enchantments are again mutually exclusive.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.19.4|dev=23w04a|Fixed knockback reduction from explosions only applying at high levels of the enchantment when at a very close distance.<ref>{{bug|MC-198809}}</ref>}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w18a|The [[explosion knockback resistance]] from Blast Protection is now displayed as a tooltip.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=24w21a|Explosion knockback resistance now stacks when on multiple armor pieces.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=Pre-Release 4|Explosion knockback resistance reduced to 3.75% per level, was previously 15% per level.}}|{{HistoryLine|||dev=1.21 Release Candidate 1|Reverted explosion knockback resistance back to 15% per level.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=June 10th 2024|slink=https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-1-21-release-candidate-1|[[Mojang Studios]] confirmed both Fire Protection and Blast Protection are to be rebalanced in the future.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added Blast Protection.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Blast Protection.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Blast Protection.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}

[[de:Explosionsschutz]]
[[es:Protección contra explosiones]]
[[fr:Protection contre les explosions]]
[[ja:爆発耐性]]
[[pt:Proteção contra Explosões]]
[[th:ทนแรงระเบิด]]
[[uk:Захист від вибухів]]
[[zh:爆炸保护]]