{{distinguish|Entity}}

A '''block entity''' (also known as a '''tile entity''') is an additional object associated with certain [[block]]s.

== Usage ==
Block entities can store additional information about their block, beyond the finite set of [[block states]] that a block may have. For example, all blocks that can store items use a block entity for this purpose. Block entities can also tick, running code regularly while loaded, even when not interacted with directly.
Complex rendering not available to normal [[block model]]s is also achieved with block entities.
Blocks with block entities can be moved by [[piston]]s {{in|be}}, but not {{in|je}}.
Some block entities have [[hitbox]]es, like item frames and paintings, and can be shown by the {{keys|F3+B}} [[debug hotkey]]{{only|je|short=1}}.

== List of block entities ==
These are the current blocks that hold block entities.

{| class="wikitable list-style-none" data-description="Blocks with block entities"
! Block Entity
! Usage
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Beehive}}
* {{BlockLink|Bee Nest}}
| Stores [[bee]]s and their entity data.
* Ticks regularly to determine when the bees should exit.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Signs|id=oak sign}}
* {{BlockLink|Hanging Signs|id=oak hanging sign}}
* {{BlockLink|Chalkboard}}{{Only|be|ee|short=1}}
* {{BlockLink|Poster}}{{Only|be|ee|short=1}}
* {{BlockLink|Slate}}{{Only|be|ee|short=1}}
| Stores written text.
* Renders the text and the sign itself.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Sculk Sensor}}
* {{BlockLink|Calibrated Sculk Sensor}}
| Stores the [[redstone]] signal strength.
* Listens for nearby vibrations.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Sculk Catalyst}}
| Stores [[Experience|xp levels]].
* Listens for nearby deaths, and spreads charges.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Sculk Shrieker}}
| Stores the number of activations.
* Listens for nearby vibrations.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Banners}}
| Stores color{{only|be|short=1}}, the patterns, and a custom name.
* Renders the banner with its patterns.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Chest}}
* {{BlockLink|Trapped Chest}}
* {{BlockLink|Shulker Box}}
* {{BlockLink|id=Shulker Boxes|Dyed Shulker Box}}
* {{BlockLink|Dispenser}}
* {{BlockLink|Dropper}}
* {{BlockLink|Barrel}}
* {{BlockLink|Chiseled Bookshelf}}
* {{BlockLink|Decorated Pot}}
| Stores its contents and a custom name for the interface.
* For [[chest]]s, [[trapped chest]]s and [[shulker box]]es, renders the opening and closing animation.
* For [[decorated pot]]s, renders the wobble animation.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Furnace}}
* {{BlockLink|Smoker}}
* {{BlockLink|Blast Furnace}}
* {{BlockLink|Brewing Stand}}
* {{BlockLink|Campfire}}
* {{BlockLink|Soul Campfire}}
| Stores its contents, the cooking and fuel times, and a custom name for the interface.
* Ticks regularly to advance the cooking time.
* For [[campfire]]s, renders the contained items.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Hopper}}
| Stores its contents, the transfer cooldown, and a custom name for the interface.
* Ticks regularly to advance the cooldown and search for items to pull.
|-
| 
* {{BlockLink|Lectern}}
| Stores the page the book is currently on.
* Renders the book.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Crafter}}
| Stores its contents, which slots are disabled and the crafting cooldown.
* Ticks regularly to advance the cooldown.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Beacon}}
| Stores the pyramid level, active [[effect]]s, and contents.
* Ticks regularly to check for a valid pyramid, and apply effects to nearby players.
* Renders the [[beacon]] beam.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Creaking Heart}}
| Stores the UUID of the transient creaking associated with this creaking heart.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Monster Spawner}}
* {{BlockLink|Trial Spawner}}
| Stores: 
* - the entity to be [[Mob spawning|spawn]]ed
* - the delay until the next entity is spawned, and the min and max values for the next spawn delay
* - how many entities to spawn per spawn attempt
* - additional data about the entity to be spawned (such as equipment, and [[status effects]])
* - the loot reward for the trial spawner
* Ticks regularly to advance its cooldown, check for spawn conditions, and spawn mobs.
* Renders the spinning entity inside.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Vault}}
| Stores its loot configuration and tracked players.
* Renders the spinning items inside.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Note Block}}{{only|be|short=1}}
| Stores the note to be played.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Item Frame}}
* {{BlockLink|Glow Item Frame}}
| Stores the contained [[item]].
* Renders the item.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Piston}}
* {{BlockLink|Sticky Piston}}
| Stores the offset of block, and blocks that it should move or [[break]].{{only|bedrock|short=1}} Also stores the moving process.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Moving Piston}}
| Stores the offset of block{{only|java|short=1}}, direction of movement{{only|java|short=1}}, and ID of the moving block.
* Renders the block.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Jukebox}}
| Stores the contained [[music disc]]s.
* Regularly ticks to end the song when time has elapsed.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Enchanting Table}}
| Stores a custom name for the interface.
* Renders the book animation.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|End Portal|link=End Portal (block)}}
* {{BlockLink|End Gateway|link=End Gateway (block)}}
| Stores the destination location.
* Renders the block.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Player Head}}
* {{BlockLink|Zombie Head}} 
* {{BlockLink|Skeleton Skull}} 
* {{BlockLink|Wither Skeleton Skull}}
* {{BlockLink|Creeper Head}}
* {{BlockLink|Dragon Head}}
* {{BlockLink|Piglin Head}}
| For [[player head]]s, stores the player's skin information.
* Renders the block.
|-
|
* {{BlockSprite|command-block}} {{BlockSprite|chain-command-block}} {{BlockSprite|repeating-command-block}} [[Command Block]]
| Stores the [[command]] text, its output strength, and the output text.
|-
|
* {{BlockSprite|structure-block-save}} {{BlockSprite|structure-block-corner}} {{BlockSprite|structure-block-data}} {{BlockSprite|structure-block-load}} [[Structure Block]]
| Stores information about the structure.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Jigsaw Block}}
| Stores the structure pool and the block this jigsaw block becomes.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Nether Reactor Core}}{{only|be|short=1}}
| Stores whether the reaction started and the time remaining in the reaction.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|id=Daylight Detectors|Daylight Detector}}
| Ticks regularly to update its output signal strength.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Flower Pot}}{{only|be|short=1}}
| Stores the ID and the data value of the block displayed inside of it.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Redstone Comparator}}
| Stores its output strength.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|id=red-bed|Bed}}
| Stores its color{{only|bedrock|short=1}}.
* Renders the block.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Cauldron}}{{only|be|short=1}}
| Stores details about [[fluid|liquid]] content. Cauldrons containing [[Cauldron#Applying dye to cauldron water|dyed water]] store water color. Cauldrons containing [[Cauldron#Filling cauldrons with potions|potions]] store the potion's ID and a tag of whether it is a splash potion or not.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Conduit}}
| Ticks regularly to check its activation area for valid activation blocks and apply effects to nearby players.
* Renders the block.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Bell}}
| Ticks regularly to apply the [[glowing]] effect to nearby raiders when used.
* Renders the swaying animation.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Lodestone}}{{only|be|short=1}}
| To link with a [[compass]].
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Suspicious Sand}}
* {{BlockLink|Suspicious Gravel}}
| Stores the [[loot table]] and contents.
* Renders the item while brushing.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Compound Creator}}{{only|be|ee|short=1}}<br>{{BlockLink|Element Constructor}}{{only|be|ee|short=1}}<br>{{BlockLink|Lab Table}}{{only|be|ee|short=1}}<br>{{BlockLink|Material Reducer}}{{only|be|ee|short=1}}
| Stores the items in the lab table and the process of lab experiment.
|-
|
* {{BlockLink|Ender chest}}
| Renders the opening and closing animation.
|-
|{{BlockLink|Shelf}}
| Stores and renders items. 
* Stores whether items should be centered or aligned to the bottom.
|-
|{{BlockLink|Copper Golem Statue}}
| Renders the block.
* Stores the golem's custom name.
|}

== Render limits ==
{{Exclusive|java|section=1}}

Block entity rendering stops beyond a hard-coded block limit which is modeled after the radius of a sphere. This limit is ''not'' affected by the Render Distance nor the Entity Distance scale in the [[Video Settings]].

Some effects related to block entities stop rendering beyond a different number of blocks:
* The [[beacon]] and [[End Gateway (block)|end gateway]] beams stop rendering beyond 256 blocks {{in|JE}} or 64 blocks {{in|BE}} or when the end gateway is out of frame.
* The outlines created by a [[structure block]] stop rendering beyond 96 blocks.

== See also ==
* [[Block entity format]] – describes the save format for block entities
* [[Entities]], which are all the dynamic, moving objects throughout the ''Minecraft'' world, plus several non-moving objects that resemble blocks.
* [[Block states]], which are, like block entities, extra pieces of data that further define a block.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|general}}
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition}}

[[Category:Block entities| ]]

[[de:Blockobjektdaten]]
[[el:Block entity]]
[[es:Entidad de bloque]]
[[fr:Entité de bloc]]
[[hu:Blokkentitás]]
[[ja:ブロックエンティティ]]
[[ko:블록 개체]]
[[nl:Segment formaat]]
[[pl:Byty bloków]]
[[pt:Bloco-entidade]]
[[ru:Блок-сущность]]
[[uk:Блок-сутність]]
[[zh:方块实体]]