{{exclusive|java}}
A '''block state provider''' is used to provide a (potentially randomized) [[block]] and [[block state]] to be placed by [[configured features]].

== JSON format ==
Block state providers are defined using the following format: 
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider<section begin="json format" />
** {{nbt|string|type}}: The type of the block state provider, see {{slink|Block state provider|Types}} for option.
** Additional fields based on {{nbt|string|type}}, see {{slink|Block state provider|Types}}.<section end="json format" />
</div>

== Types ==
The following block state provider types exist.

=== simple_state_provider ===
Specifies a single block state directly
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider
** {{nbt|string|type}}: <code>simple_state_provider</code>
** {{nbt|compound|state}}: The block state to use.
*** {{nbt inherit/block_state}}
</div>

=== rotated_block_provider ===
Randomly rotates axially-rotated blocks, such as logs, chain.
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider
** {{nbt|string|type}}: <code>rotated_block_provider</code>
** {{nbt|compound|state}}: The block ID to use. The block properties are ignored.
*** {{nbt inherit/block_state}}
</div>

=== weighted_state_provider ===
Chooses a block state from a weighted list.
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider
** {{nbt|string|type}}: <code>weighted_state_provider</code>
** {{nbt|list|entries}}: (Cannot be empty) A weighted list of block state entries.
*** {{nbt|compound}} A block state and its corresponding weight.
**** {{nbt|compound|data}}: The block state to use.
***** {{nbt inherit/block_state}}
**** {{nbt|int|weight}}: The weight of this entry.
</div>

=== randomized_int_state_provider ===
Assigns a random value to an integer block property.
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider
** {{nbt|string|type}}: <code>randomized_int_state_provider</code>
** {{Nbt|string|property}}: The name of a block property.
** {{Nbt|int}}{{Nbt|compound|values}}: The value of the block property.
*** {{Nbt inherit/int provider}}
** {{Nbt|compound|source}}: Another block state provider that specifies the source of the block state.
*** {{nbt inherit/block state provider}}
</div>

=== noise_provider ===
Randomly chooses a block state according to a noise value.
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider
** {{nbt|string|type}}: <code>noise_provider</code>
** {{Nbt|long|seed}}: The seed of the noise.
** {{Nbt|compound|noise}}: A noise.
** {{Nbt|float|scale}}: Horizontal scale of the noise. Must be a positive value.
** {{Nbt|list|states}}: (Cannot be empty) List of optional block states.
*** {{Nbt|compound}}: A block state.
**** {{Nbt inherit/block_state}}
</div>

=== dual_noise_provider ===
Randomly chooses a block state according to two noise values.
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider
** {{nbt|string|type}}: <code>dual_noise_provider</code>
** {{Nbt|long|seed}}: The seed of the noise.
** {{Nbt|compound|noise}}: A noise.
** {{Nbt|float|scale}}: Horizontal scale of noise. Must be a positive value.
** {{Nbt|compound|slow_noise}}: The noise used for the first selection.
** {{Nbt|float|slow_scale}}: Horizontal scale of the slow noise. Must be a positive value.
** {{Nbt|compound|variety}}: The number of block states that selected out by slow noise.
*** {{Nbt|int|min_inclusive}}: The min number of block states after selection by slow noise. Must be an integer equal to or greater than 1.
*** {{Nbt|int|max_inclusive}}: The max number of block states after selection by slow noise. Must be an integer equal to or less than 64, and must be greater than {{Nbt|int|min_inclusive}}.
** {{Nbt|list|variety}}: Shorthand version of {{Nbt|compound|variety}}.
*** {{Nbt|int}}: Min number. Must be an integer equal to or greater than 1.
*** {{Nbt|int}}: Max number. Must be an integer equal to or less than 64, and must be greater than the min number.
** {{Nbt|int|variety}}: Shorthand version of {{Nbt|compound|variety}} when the min equals to the max. Value between 1 and 64 (both inclusive).
** {{Nbt|list|states}}: List of block states to choose from.
*** {{Nbt|compound}}: A block state.
**** {{Nbt inherit/block_state}}
</div>

=== noise_threshold_provider ===
Uses different block states when a noise value above or below the threshold.
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: A block state provider
** {{nbt|string|type}}: <code>noise_threshold_provider</code>
** {{Nbt|long|seed}}: The seed of the noise.
** {{Nbt|compound|noise}}: A noise.
** {{Nbt|float|scale}}: Horizontal scale of noise. Must be a positive value.
** {{Nbt|float|threshold}}: Value between -1.0 and 1.0 (inclusive). The threshold of the noise value. If the noise value is lower than this value, the block states in {{cd|low_states}} will be selected.
** {{Nbt|float|high_chance}}: Value between 0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive). If the noise value is higher than the threshold, the block states in {{cd|high_states}} will be selected with a probability of high_chance.
** {{Nbt|compound|default_state}}: Default block state. These block states is used when the noise value is higher than {{cd|threshold}} but high_states is not selected according to high_chance.
*** {{Nbt inherit/block_state}}
** {{Nbt|list|low_states}}: (Cannot be empty) List of block states to choose from when lower than threshold.
*** {{Nbt|compound}}: A block state.
**** {{Nbt inherit/block_state}}
** {{Nbt|list|high_states}}: (Cannot be empty) List of block states to choose from when higher than threshold.
*** {{Nbt|compound}}: A block state.
**** {{Nbt inherit/block_state}}
</div>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|datapack}}

[[fr:Génération du monde personnalisée/Fournisseur d'état de bloc]]
[[ja:ワールド生成のカスタマイズ/block state provider]]
[[ko:블록 상태 제공자]]
[[pt:Geração de mundo personalizado/provedor de estado de bloco]]
[[ru:Натуральные декорации/Провайдер состояний блока]]
[[uk:Постачальник стану блока]]
[[zh:编码格式/Worldgen#方块状态提供器]]