{{see also|Potion|Splash Potion}}
{{joke feature}}
{{Infobox item
|image=Bottle of Entity.png
|image2=Splash Bottle of Entity.png
|image3=Bottle of Void.png
| invimage1 = Bottle of Entity
| invimage2 = Splash Bottle of Entity
| invimage3 = Bottle of Void
|renewable= Yes
|stackable= No
|imagecaption=Bottle of Entity|image2caption=Splash Bottle of Entity|image3caption=Bottle of Void}}
'''Bottles of entity''' are joke [[drinks]], introduced in [[23w13a_or_b]], that transform players into the respective mobs when drunk.

'''Splash bottles of entity''' are variations of bottles of entity that can be thrown.

A '''bottle of void''' is a bottle that transforms a [[player]] back into their original form. {{control|Using}} one on a transformed player (or drinking it) removes the transformation and convert the bottle into a bottle of entity of that transformation, or a bottle of the players active effects if they were not transformed.

A transformation into an entity sometimes leads to special effects. For example, transforming into a [[chicken]] allows the player to glide slowly to the ground. The chicken, however, takes fall damage upon landing, killing it and transforming the player back to themselves.

Transforming into an [[enderman]] causes the player to be teleported randomly when a projectile is aimed at it or when they're being looked at by other players. Transforming into any mob capable of flight (for example, a [[bat]]) allows the player to fly in survival mode as if they were in creative mode. The Bottle of Entity is heavily based off of the famous Morph Mod.

== Obtaining ==
Bottle of void is obtained by drinking a [[glass bottle]]. Rule "drink_air" must be approved to enable that. Then, by {{control|using}} the bottle of void on a mob, a bottle of that mob is obtained. This can be turned into a splash bottle of that mob in a [[brewing stand]] with [[gunpowder]], just like any other [[potion]].

== Sounds ==
<!--No sounds when thrown from a player or dispenser-->
Splash bottles of entities use the Friendly Creatures sound category for entity-dependent sound events.

{{SoundTable
| type = java
| {{SoundLine
| sound =Bottle fill water1.ogg
|sound2=Bottle fill water2.ogg
|sound3=Bottle fill water3.ogg
|sound4=Bottle fill water4.ogg
|subtitle=Bottle fills
|source=neutral
|description=When an entity is collected using a bottle of void
|id=item.bottle.fill
|translationkey=subtitles.item.bottle.fill
|volume=1.0
|pitch=1.0
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|sound=Drink.ogg
|subtitle=Sipping
|source=player
|description=While a player is drinking a bottle of entity
|id=entity.generic.drink
|translationkey=subtitles.entity.generic.drink
|volume=0.5
|pitch=0.9-1.0
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|sound=Glass dig1.ogg
|sound2=Glass dig2.ogg
|sound3=Glass dig3.ogg
|subtitle=Bottle smashes
|source=neutral
|description=When a splash bottle of entity impacts something <ref group=sound>This sound is played six times simultaneously</ref>
|id=entity.splash_potion.break
|translationkey=subtitles.entity.potion.splash
|volume=1.0
|pitch=0.9-1.0
| distance = 16
}}
}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|showforms=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Bottle of Entity
|spritetype=item
|nameid=bottle_of_entity
|form=item
|translationkey=item.minecraft.bottle_of_entity,item.minecraft.bottle_of_entity.specific}}
{{ID table
|showforms=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Splash Bottle of Entity
|spritetype=item
|nameid=splash_bottle_of_entity
|form=item
|translationkey=item.minecraft.splash_bottle_of_entity,item.minecraft.splash_bottle_of_entity.specific}}
{{ID table
|showforms=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Bottle of Void
|spritetype=item
|nameid=bottle_of_void
|form=item
|translationkey=item.minecraft.bottle_of_void
|foot=1}}

==Issues==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox items|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|23w13a or b}}

[[Category:Joke items]]
[[Category:Drinks]]

[[ja:Bottle of Entity]]
[[pt:Edição Java 23w13a or b/Bottle of Entity]]
[[zh:实体之瓶]]