{{Disambig}}

'''Bottle''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
* {{ItemLink|Glass Bottle}}, crafted from glass.
* {{ItemLink|Bottle o' Enchanting}}, yielding experience orbs when thrown.
* {{ItemLink|Honey Bottle}}, a glass bottle filled with honey, used to restore {{hunger|6}} hunger and removes the {{EffectSprite|Poison}} [[poison]] effect if applied to the player.
* {{ItemLink|Ominous Bottle}}, a glass bottle obtained from raid captains or trial chambers that gives the [[Bad Omen]] effect.
* {{ItemLink|Water Bottle}}, a glass bottle filled with water.
* {{ItemLink|Bottle of Entity}}, an April Fools glass bottle which turns you into an entity.
* {{ItemLink|Splash Bottle of Entity}}, yielding transforms into entities with other entities when thrown.
* {{ItemLink|Bottle of Void}}, an April Fools glass bottle which removes your transformation into an entity using a bottle of entity, into a player.
* {{ItemLink|Potion}}, can be brewed, starting from a water bottle.
* {{ItemLink|id=splash-potion|Splash Potion}}, can be thrown as a weapon.
* {{ItemLink|id=lingering-potion|Lingering Potion}}, can be thrown as a weapon and leaves area of effect cloud.
* {{ItemLink|Dragon's Breath}}, a glass bottle filled with the [[ender dragon]]'s breath, used for brewing.
* {{ItemLink|Medicine}}, can cure specific negative status effect.{{only|bedrock|education}}
* {{ItemLink|Potion of Big}}, an April Fools glass bottle which turns you and entities into a big.
* {{ItemLink|Potion of Small}}, an April Fools glass bottle which turns you and entities into a small.
* {{ItemLink|Potion of Sticky}}, an April Fools glass bottle which makes the mob and player able to scale blocks like a spider by simply walking into them.
* {{ItemLink|Potato Oil}}, an April Fools glass bottle which affected items slide as if on ice blocks.
* {{ItemLink|Poisonous Potato Oil}}, a variant of potato oil which only causes up to {{hp|36|poisoned=1}} damage over time at a rate of 1 every 50 ticks, but does not reduce health below {{hp|1}}.

== ''Minecraft: Story Mode'' ==
* {{SMItemLink|Ivor's Potion}}, the potion intended to be used as a fail-safe for the wither storm
* {{SMItemLink|Potion}}, regular potions that are seen throughout both seasons of the series
* {{SMItemLink|Smoke Bomb}}, a lingering potion that produces large amount of smoke
* {{SMItemLink|Splash Potion}}, a weapon used by witches and Ivor

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==
* {{DuItemLink|Burning Brew}}, a potion that grants the hero the burning effect
* {{DuItemLink|Dense Brew}}, a potion that grants the hero a resistance to pushbacks and melee damage
* {{DuItemLink|Oakwood Brew}}, a potion that briefly boosts the hero's defense
* {{DuItemLink|Potion of Water Breathing}}, a potion that grants the ability to breathe freely underwater for a limited time
* {{DuItemLink|Shadow Brew}}, a potion that grants invisibility and boosts the hero's next melee attack
* {{DuItemLink|Strength Potion}}, a potion that briefly boosts damage
* {{DuItemLink|Sweet Brew}}, a potion that grants a small defense boost and resistance to freezing effects
* {{DuItemLink|Swiftness Potion}}, a potion that briefly boosts the hero's movement speed
* {{DuItemLink|Health Potion}}, a potion that is part of the hero's utility bar
* {{DuItemLink|Health Potion (consumable)}}, an unused consumable version of the health potion utility
* {{DuItemLink|Harming Potion}}, an unused potion
* {{DuItemLink|Invisibility Potion}}, an unused potion
* {{DuItemLink|Splash Harming Potion}}, an unused potion
* {{DuItemLink|Splash Slowing Potion}}, an unused potion


[[de:Flasche (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[es:Frasco]]
[[ja:瓶]]
[[lzh:瓶（辨異）]]
[[uk:Пляшка]]
[[zh:瓶子（消歧义）]]