{{Disambig}}

'''Bush''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
* {{BlockLink|Bush}} – a decorative block.
* {{BlockLink|Firefly Bush}} – a decorative block that emits [[firefly]] particles.
* {{BlockLink|Dead Bush}} - a brown, "dead-looking" block found in [[desert]], [[badlands]], [[swamp]] and [[mangrove swamp]], as well as [[old growth taiga]] biomes.
* {{BlockLink|Sweet Berry Bush}} – a block found in [[taiga]]s and [[snowy taiga]]s which can be used to harvest {{ItemLink|sweet berries}} when grown.
* {{BlockLink|Rose Bush}} – a type of flower found in [[forest]]s, [[birch forest]], and [[dark forest]] biome variants.
* {{BlockLink|Leaves}} – blocks that grow as a part of trees, which have a "bush-like" look and are thus sometimes used to simulate bushes when building.
* {{BlockLink|Azalea}} – a decorative block that look like a bush and has a flowering and flowerless version.
* {{BlockLink|id=shrub-inv}} [[Shrubs]] – two variants of grass, one of which has the same appearance as a dead bush and the other the same appearance as normal grass.{{only|console}}
* {{BlockLink|Green Shrub}} - a variant of the [[shrub]]
* {{EnvLink|Jungle Bush}} – a bush-like tree in jungles.
* {{BlockLink|id=oak-sapling}} [[Saplings]] – blocks that can be grown into a tree; formerly internally known as "bushes."
* [[Shrubland]] - a removed biome.

== See also ==
* [[Grass]]

[[de:Busch (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[es:Arbusto (desambiguación)]]
[[fr:Buisson (homonymie)]]
[[lzh:叢（辨異）]]
[[pt:Arbusto (desambiguação)]]
[[ru:Куст (значения)]]
[[uk:Кущ (значення)]]
[[zh:灌木（消歧义）]]