{{For|other related things|Caves & Cliffs (disambiguation)}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox video
|length=0:54
|date=June 8, 2021
|type=[[Mojang cinematic]]
|production=[[Svep Studios]]
|image=Alex hides behind tree.png
|prev=[[Nether Update: Official Trailer]]
|next=[[Caves & Cliffs Update: Part II – Official Trailer]]
}}

'''Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I – Official Trailer''' is a trailer for the first part of [[Caves & Cliffs]], highlighting various features added in the update, as well as the antics of a [[goat]].

== Summary ==
It was a dark and stormy night, many [[villagers]] are fleeing inside of their homes to prevent getting [[Rain|wet]]. [[Steve]] just brushes themself off and builds with [[copper]] blocks. They are then rammed off the roof by a goat. Cut to daytime, where a [[vindicator]] is chasing a [[chicken]] for unstated reasons. The vindicator is then rammed into a wall by a goat. A happy [[armorer]] seems pleased by this. The [[armorer]] is then rammed off the screen by a goat.

Several [[tropical fish]] are flopping on a [[beach]], trying to get back into the [[water]], before an [[axolotl]] emerges behind them. Apparently, it either caught them or they're simply that desperate to get away. In a [[snowy plains]], [[Alex]] is using a [[spyglass]] and watches as a goat rams into them. Steve tries to make peace with a goat in a [[desert]] using [[wheat]], it rams into them. An [[enderman]] stands on a cliff, a goat nearly rams into it. Several axolotls swim with a [[guardian]] and toss it around like a volleyball. A [[sheep]] approaches  a [[nether portal]], a goat rams it over to the [[Nether]]. Alex is terrified by an impossibly large fleet of [[spider jockeys]], hiding behind a tree before a goat rams into them again.

A [[wolf]] tries to howl at the [[moon]], the goat rams into it as well and tries to moo/baa at it instead. A [[trader llama]] and baby llama spit on a baby goat, what is presumed to be its parent rams into the llama, sending it and their [[Wandering Trader|owner]] flying. A blue axolotl rams into a [[drowned]], as a goat tries to swim in the background. A goat rams a [[pillager]] off its outpost. Another axolotl rams into a [[glow squid]]. Finally, a large collection of mobs are flung into the air, mimicking the poster for the update.

==== Characters ====
{{columns-list|*{{EntityLink|Alex}}
*{{EntityLink|Armorer}}
*{{EntityLink|Brown Llama|Baby Brown Llama}}<!--Placeholder-->
*{{EntityLink|id=Blue-Axolotl|Axolotl#Blue|Blue Axolotl}}
*{{EntityLink|Butcher}}
*{{EntityLink|Chicken}}
*{{EntityLink|id=Cyan Axolotl|Axolotl#Cyan|Cyan Axolotl}}
*{{EntityLink|Drowned}}
*{{EntityLink|Farmer}}
*{{EntityLink|Goat}}
*{{EntityLink|Glow Squid}}
*{{EntityLink|Green Axolotl}}
*{{EntityLink|Guardian}}
*{{EntityLink|Leatherworker}}
*{{EntityLink|id=Leucistic Axolotl|Axolotl|Leucistic Axolotl}}
*{{EntityLink|Llama}}
*{{EntityLink|Pale Wolf}}
*{{EntityLink|Pillager}}
*{{EntityLink|Skeleton}}
*{{EntityLink|Spider}}
*{{EntityLink|Spider Jockey}}
*{{EntityLink|Steve}}
*{{EntityLink|Trader Llama}}
*{{EntityLink|Tropical Fish}}
*{{EntityLink|Vindicator}}
*{{EntityLink|Wandering Trader}}
*{{EntityLink|White Sheep}}
*{{EntityLink|id=Wild Axolotl|Axolotl#Wild|Wild Axolotl}}|colwidth=20em}}

== Quotes ==
{{Quote|Delve into Part I of the Caves & Cliffs Update with fun mobs, blocks, and items! Team up with the axolotl, swim with the glow squid, and climb with the goats. Mine copper and use it to build structures that will age over time. The Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I launches on June 8, download Bedrock Edition on Xbox Series X, Xbox Series S, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, iOS, Android, and Windows 10, and Java Edition update on Windows, macOS, and Linux.|Video description}}

== Videos ==
{{YT|0maWbr0FHKY}}

== Credits ==
'''Direction'''
* [[Fredrik Ekholm]]

'''Producer'''
* [[Elias Widerdal]]
* [[Nicolette Surga]]

'''Art Direction'''
* [[Fredrik Ekholm]]
* [[Johan Aronsson]]

'''Ideation & Script'''
* [[Cristina Anderca]]
* [[Owen Jones]]
* [[Johan Arosson]]
* [[Fredirk Ekholm]]

'''3D Lead'''
* [[Johannes Matsson]]

'''3D Generalist'''
* [[Johannes Matsson]]
* [[Tim van der Wiel]]
* [[Philip Månsson]]

'''Animation Supervisor'''
* [[David Weidemann]]

'''Character Animation'''
* [[Florian Raphael Panzer]]
* [[Bruno Buzinkay]]
* [[David Weidmann]]

'''FX Artist'''
* [[Ola Tandstad]]

'''Compositing'''
* [[Sven Ahlström]]
* [[Fredrik Ekholm]]

'''Grade, Online & Versioning'''
* [[Sander van Wijk]]
* [[Peter Skov Nielsen]]

'''Storyboard Artist'''
* [[Magnus Jonason]]

'''Audo'''
* [[Calle Wachtmeister]]

== Trivia ==

* Curiously, several of the unused green axolotl can be seen during the video, suggesting they were scrapped late into production.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox cinematics}}
[[Category:Svep Studios]]
[[Category:Caves & Cliffs]]