{{Infobox enchantment
| othernames = '''Channelling''' {{evb|au|ca|gb|nz}}
| versionAdded = {{Verlink|18w07a}}
| dateAdded = February 14, 2018
| maxlevel = I
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Trident|link=Trident}}
| weight = 1
| id = channeling
| incompat = [[Riptide]]
}}
'''Channeling'''{{fn|Also known as '''Channelling''' in [[Language#Differences between English variants|other variants of English]].}} is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[trident]]s that causes a [[lightning]] strike when thrown at an [[entity]] or [[lightning rod]] during a [[thunderstorm]] (in {{JE}}) or at a lightning rod during any type of [[rain]] (in {{BE}}).

== Obtaining ==
Channeling can be obtained from [[enchanting table]]s, drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], librarian [[villager]]s, and in the following structures loot chests: [[desert pyramid]], [[stronghold]], [[ocean ruins]], [[woodland mansion]], [[pillager outpost]], [[ancient city]], [[mineshaft]], [[dungeon]], [[jungle pyramid]]s, and from [[vault]]s in [[trial chambers]].

== Usage ==
Channeling summons a lightning bolt when an entity or lightning rod is hit by a thrown [[trident]], if there is currently a [[thunderstorm]] occurring. This applies to most entities that the trident can collide with: [[mob]]s, [[player]]s, [[armor stand]]s, [[boat]]s, [[minecart]]s, [[end crystal]]s, [[item frame]]s, [[painting]]s, [[leash knot]]s, and even [[shulker bullet]]s. It does not apply to ghast [[fireball]]s and [[wind charge]]s, and to entities that the trident can't collide with ([[small fireball]]s, [[arrow]]s, [[experience orb]]s, thrown [[item entities]], primed [[TNT]], [[falling block]]s, [[wither]] projectiles, and so on).

The entity must be exposed to the open sky for the enchantment to work.{{Verify|Some blocks do allow lightning through}} This enchantment allows the [[player]] to transform some mobs into different mobs.

Mobs struck by lightning summoned by this enchantment react in the same way as they would if struck by [[lightning]] normally. The following mobs transform into another mob when hit:
* {{EntityLink|Creeper}} into {{EntityLink|Charged Creeper}}
* {{EntityLink|Pig}} into {{EntityLink|Zombified Piglin}}
* {{EntityLink|Villager}} into {{EntityLink|Witch}}
* {{EntityLink|Mooshroom}} into {{EntityLink|Brown Mooshroom}}

As with a regular lightning strike, [[turtle]]s are instantly killed and drop a [[bowl]].

{{IN|java}}, Channeling doesn't affect mobs in some circumstances<ref>{{bug|MC-125773}}</ref><ref>{{bug|MC-134920}}</ref><ref>{{bug|MC-217528}}</ref>. A mob cannot be: in [[water]], [[lava]], [[powder snow]], [[cobweb]], on [[soul sand]], [[honey block]], [[mud]], or [[snow]] (if snow layer is 8) while being hit with this enchantment. Humanoid mobs in a [[minecart]] or in a [[boat]] which have the "riding" posture (see {{slink|Riding|Posture}}) also can't be struck with lightning, but other mobs in vehicles can be struck.

However, it should be noted that in the circumstances stated above, even though lightning cannot be summoned if the mob itself is hit by a Channeling trident, they are still ''affected'' by the lightning if it strikes nearby. For instance, if a Channeling trident hits an [[armor stand]] next to a creeper in water, the lightning is summoned as normal, and the creeper becomes charged from being in the affected radius of the lightning.

{{IN|bedrock}}, Channeling tridents thrown at [[lightning rod]]s during rain create lightning without the need for a thunderstorm.{{Verify|Is this still the case? It could be a bug}}

Lightning created with a Channeling trident cannot be redirected into a lightning rod.

Lightning from a Channeling trident never spawns a [[skeleton trap]].

== Incompatibilities ==
Channeling and [[Riptide]] are mutually exclusive. If combined using commands, Riptide supersedes Channeling.

== Sounds ==
{{Edition|Java}}
{{SoundTable
| type = java
| {{SoundLine
|sound =Trident thunder1.ogg
|sound2=Trident thunder2.ogg
|subtitle=Trident thunder cracks
|source=weather
|description=When a trident with Channeling strikes a lightning rod
|id=item.trident.thunder
|translationkey=subtitles.item.trident.thunder
|volume=5.0
|pitch=1.0
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|subtitle=Trident thunder cracks
|source=neutral
|description=When a Channeling trident hits a mob
|id=item.trident.thunder
|translationkey=subtitles.item.trident.thunder
|volume=5.0
|pitch=1.0
| distance = 16
}}
}}

{{Edition|Bedrock}}:
{{SoundTable
| type = bedrock
| {{SoundLine
| sound =Trident thunder1.ogg
|sound2=Trident thunder2.ogg
|source=player
|description=When a trident with Channeling strikes a mob<wbr><ref group=sound>{{bug|MCPE-173931||Tridents don't make channeling sounds when striking a lightning rod}}</ref>
|id=item.trident.thunder
|volume=1.0<wbr><ref group=sound>{{Bug|MCPE-178265||Trident thunder sound definition schema error}}</ref>
| pitch = 1.0
}}
}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=channeling
|displayname=Channeling
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=channeling
|displayname=Channeling
|id=32
|translationkey=enchantment.tridentChanneling
|foot=1}}

== Advancements ==
{{Load advancements|Very Very Frightening;Surge Protector}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=18w07a|Channeling is added alongside [[trident]]s.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=18w14a|Channeling is no longer compatible with [[Riptide]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.17|dev=20w45a|Channeling can now be triggered by hitting [[lightning rod]]s.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w18a|[[Drowned]] can now use the Channeling enchantment.<ref>{{bug|MC-271629}}</ref>}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=24w20a|[[Drowned]] can no longer use the Channeling enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.2|dev=24w33a|[[Drowned]] can now use the Channeling enchantment again.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===

{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.2.13|dev=beta 1.2.13.8|exp=Experimental Gameplay|Added Channeling as part of [[Experimental Gameplay]], able to be applied to the new [[trident]]s.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.4.0|dev=beta 1.2.14.2|Channeling has been fully implemented and is no longer part of Experimental Gameplay.
|[[Trident]]s are now fully implemented and can now be enchanted with Channeling.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===

{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU69|xbone=none|ps3=1.76|psvita=1.76|ps4=1.76|wiiu=Patch 38|switch=none|Channeling is added alongside tridents.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== Trivia ==
*The ''Very Very Frightening'' achievement title is a reference to the song ''{{Wikipedia|Bohemian Rhapsody}}''.

== Notes ==
{{Fnlist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|melee-ranged}}

[[de:Entladung]]
[[es:Conductividad]]
[[fr:Canalisation]]
[[ja:召雷]]
[[pt:Condutividade]]
[[th:สายฟ้าพิฆาต]]
[[zh:引雷]]