{{Disambiguation}}

'''Chest''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
* {{BlockLink|Chest}}, a block which can store items.
* {{BlockLink|Trapped Chest}}, a redstone component which sends redstone signals when opened.
* {{BlockLink|Ender Chest}}, a chest whose contents are the same universally per player.
* {{EntityLink|Minecart with Chest}}, a chest in a minecart.
* {{EntityLink|id=oak boat with chest|Boat with Chest}}, a chest in a boat.
* {{BlockLink|Copper Chest}}, a variant of the chest that can be crafted with copper ingots.
* {{EnvLink|Bonus Chest}}, a structure which consists of a chest surrounded with torches.
* {{BlockLink|Shulker Box}}, a portable chest.
** {{BlockLink|id=shulker boxes|Dyed Shulker Box}}, a dyed variant of the shulker box.
* {{BlockLink|Barrel}}, a chest-like block.
* {{EnvLink|Buried treasure}}, an underground structure which consists of a chest buried underground.
* {{BlockLink|Shelf}}, a block that that can hold and display up to three [[stack]]s of [[item]]s. It has variants in all [[wood]] types.

=== April Fools' jokes ===
* {{BlockLink|Locked chest}}, an April Fools' joke where items were (not actually) sold with real money.
* {{BlockLink|Golden Chest}}, an April Fools' joke chest with golden texture.

=== Technical ===
* [[Command storage format]]

"Chest" is also the name of the armor [[slot]] in which [[chestplate]]s and [[elytra]] can be equipped. This exists as one of the slots of [[player]]s, [[mob]]s, [[armor stand]]s, and all living [[entities]].

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==

* {{DuMiscLink|Chest}}
* {{DuMiscLink|Emerald Chest}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Piggy Bank}}

=== Locations ===

* [[Dungeons:Secret Chest Room|Secret Chest Room]]
* [[Dungeons:Forge Cave Chest Room|Fiery Forge Cave Chest Room]]

== ''Minecraft Legends'' ==

* {{LeStructureLink|Allay Chest}}
* {{LeStructureLink|Piglin Chest}}
* [[MCL:Village#Village chest|Village Chest]]

== ''Minecraft Earth'' ==

* {{BlockLink|Adventure Chest}}, the reward found after finishing an [[MCE:adventure|adventure]].

== ''A Minecraft Movie'' ==
* {{MovieLink|Chest}}

== See also ==
* [[Frame]]

[[de:Truhe (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[es:Cofre (desambiguación)]]
[[fr:Coffre (homonymie)]]
[[it:Baule (disambigua)]]
[[ja:チェスト (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[lzh:箱（辨異）]]
[[pl:Skrzynia (ujednoznacznienie)]]
[[pt:Baú (desambiguação)]]
[[ru:Сундук (значения)]]
[[zh:箱子（消歧义）]]