<div class="treeview"><onlyinclude>

**{{nbt|boolean|crit}}: {{cd|1}} or {{cd|0}} ({{cd|true}}/{{cd|false}}) - If {{cd|true}}, the arrow deals critical damage.
** {{nbt|double|damage}}: Damage multiplier of the arrow. Defaults to 2.0 for regular arrows, and is increased by a flat 0.5 if any level of Power is present on the bow. 0.5 is then added for each level of Power over the first (i.e Power I would result in 3.0, Power II would result in 3.5, etc.){{checkthecode|Trident info}}
** {{nbt|compound|inBlockState}}: Optional. The block the arrow is in. Is not preserved when removed.
*** {{nbt|string|Name}}: The [[resource location]] corresponding to the block.
*** {{nbt|compound|Properties}}: Optional. The [[block state]]s of the block.
**** {{nbt|string|''Name''}}: The block state name and its value.
** {{nbt|boolean|inGround}}: {{cd|1}} or {{cd|0}} ({{cd|true}}/{{cd|false}}) - If {{cd|true}}, the arrow is stuck in the ground.
** {{nbt|short|life}}: Increments each tick when the arrow is not moving; resets to 0 if it moves. When it ticks to 1200, the arrow despawns.
** {{nbt|byte|pickup}}: 0 = cannot be picked up by players. 1 = can be picked up by players in survival or creative. 2 = can be picked up by players only in creative.
** {{nbt|byte|PierceLevel}}: The amount of remaining times this arrow can pierce through an entity.
** {{nbt|byte|shake}}: Ticks until the arrow can be picked up by players. This is set to 7 when the arrow initially hits a block.
** {{nbt|boolean|ShotFromCrossbow}}: {{cd|1}} or {{cd|0}} ({{cd|true}}/{{cd|false}}) - If {{cd|true}}, the arrow was shot from a crossbow. If '''inGround''' is {{cd|true}}, this is always set to {{cd|false}}.
** {{nbt|string|SoundEvent}}: The sound event to play when hitting a block/mob, cannot use non-vanilla sound events. Is not preserved when removed.
** {{nbt|compound|item}}: The arrow item that was used up to shoot the arrow.
*** {{nbt inherit/itemnoslot}}
** {{nbt|compound|weapon}}: The bow or crossbow item that the arrow was shot using.
*** {{nbt inherit/itemnoslot}}
</onlyinclude></div><noinclude>
[[Category:Top-level data pages]]
[[fr:Format de chunk/Flèche]]
[[ja:Chunkフォーマット/Arrow]]
[[pt:Formato de chunk/Flecha]]
[[uk:Формат чанку/Стріла]]
</noinclude>