<div class="treeview"><onlyinclude>
**{{nbt|short|Air}}: How much air the entity has, in game ticks. Decreases when unable to breathe (except suffocating in a block). Increases when it can breathe. {{nbt|short|Air}} being <code><= -20</code> game ticks (while still unable to breathe) on a given game tick causes the entity to immediately lose 1 health to [[drowning]] damage. This resets {{nbt|short|Air}} to 0 game ticks. Most mobs can have a maximum of {{convert|300|game ticks|seconds}} of {{nbt|short|Air}}, while dolphins can reach up to {{convert|4800|game ticks|seconds}}, and axolotls have {{convert|6000|game ticks|seconds}}.
** {{nbt|compound}}{{nbt|list}}{{nbt|string|CustomName}}: The custom name [[text component]] of this entity. Appears in player death messages and villager trading interfaces, as well as above the entity when the player's cursor is over it. May be empty or not exist.
** {{nbt|bool|CustomNameVisible}}: {{cd|1|0|d=or}} ({{cd|true|false|d=/}}) - if {{cd|true}}, and this entity has a custom name, the name always appears above the entity, regardless of where the cursor points. If the entity does not have a custom name, a default name is shown. May not exist.
** {{nbt|compound|data}}: Any custom data. Used to store data the {{cd|custom_data}} entity component which can be checked by [[predicate]]s.
** {{nbt|double|fall_distance}}: Distance the entity has fallen. Larger values cause more damage when the entity lands.
** {{nbt|short|Fire}}: Number of game ticks until the fire is put out. Negative values reflect how long the entity can stand in fire before burning. Default to -20 when not on fire.
** {{nbt|bool|Glowing}}: {{cd|1|0|d=or}} ({{cd|true|false|d=/}}) - if {{cd|true}}, the entity has a glowing outline. 
** {{nbt|bool|HasVisualFire}}: {{cd|1|0|d=or}} ({{cd|true|false|d=/}}) - if {{cd|true}}, the entity visually appears on fire, even if it is not actually on fire.
** {{nbt|string|id}}: [[Resource location#Conversion to string|String representation]] of the [[Java Edition data values#Entities|entity's ID]]. Does not exist for the Player entity.
** {{nbt|bool|Invulnerable}}: {{cd|1|0|d=or}} ({{cd|true|false|d=/}}) - if {{cd|true}}, the entity should not take damage. This applies to living and nonliving entities alike: mobs should not take damage from any source (including potion effects), and cannot be moved by fishing rods, attacks, explosions, or projectiles, and objects such as vehicles and item frames cannot be destroyed unless their supports are removed. Invulnerable player entities are also ignored by any hostile mobs. Note that these entities can be damaged by players in Creative mode.
** {{nbt|list|Motion}}: List of 3 {{nbt|double|}} doubles describing the current {{cd|dX|dY|dZ|d=and}} velocity of the entity in meters per game tick. Only allows between 10.0 and -10.0 (inclusive), else resets to 0.
** {{nbt|bool|NoGravity}}: {{cd|1|0|d=or}} ({{cd|true|false|d=/}}) - if {{cd|true}}, the entity does not fall down naturally. Does not exist if set to false. Set to {{cd|true}} by striders in lava.
** {{nbt|bool|OnGround}}: {{cd|1|0|d=or}} ({{cd|true|false|d=/}}) - if {{cd|true}}, the entity is touching the ground.
** {{nbt|list|Passengers}}: The data of the entities that are riding this entity.
*** {{nbt|compound}}: The same as this format (recursive). Note that each passenger entity, and the ridden entity (the vehicle) have equal control of the movement of the ridden entity. The topmost entity controls spawning conditions when the vehicle entity is created by a mob spawner.
**** {{nbt inherit/entity}}
**** Tags unique to this passenger entity.
** {{nbt|int|PortalCooldown}}: The number of game ticks before which the entity may be teleported back through a nether portal. Initially starts at {{convert|300|game tick|seconds}} after teleportation and counts down to 0.
** {{nbt|list|Pos}}: List of 3 {{nbt|double}} doubles describing the current X, Y, and Z position ([[coordinates]]) of the entity.
** {{nbt|list|Rotation}}: List of 2 floats representing the rotation of the entity's facing direction, in degrees. Facing direction can also be described as a looking direction, for most entity's that have heads.
*** {{nbt|float|0}}: The '''yaw''' of the entity's orientation. Yaw is the rotation around the Y axis (called yaw). Values vary from -180 degrees to +180 degrees, rather than from 0 to 360. As the entity turns to the right, this value goes up, and as the entity turns left, this value does down. See table of specific values here: [[<includeonly>Chunk format/Entity</includeonly>/Rotation (yaw)]].
*** {{nbt|float|1}}: The '''pitch''' of the entity's orientation. Pitch is the offset from the horizon. Pitch = 0 means the direction is horizontal. A positive pitch (pitch > 0) means the entity is facing downward to some degree, or that the facing direction is facing below the horizon (toward the ground). A negative pitch (pitch > 0) means the entity is facing above the horizon (toward higher ground of the sky). Pitch is always between -90 and +90 degrees, where pitch = -90 means facing directly down, and pitch = +90 means facing directly up.
** {{nbt|bool|Silent}}: {{cd|1|0|d=or}} ({{cd|true|false|d=/}}) - if {{cd|true}}, this entity is silenced. May not exist.
** {{nbt|list|Tags}}: List of [[Scoreboard#Tags|scoreboard tags]] of this entity. It is not preserved if it is removed.
** {{nbt|int|TicksFrozen}}: Optional. How many game ticks the entity has been [[Powder Snow#Freezing|freezing]]. Although this tag is defined for all entities, it is actually only used by [[mob]]s that are not in the {{cd|freeze_immune_entity_types}} [[entity type tag]]. Increases while in [[powder snow]], even partially, up to a maximum of {{convert|300|game ticks|seconds}}, and decreases at double speed while not in powder snow.
** {{nbt|int-array|UUID}}: This entity's [[Universally Unique IDentifier]]. The 128-bit UUID is stored as four 32-bit integers ({{nbt|int|Ints}}), ordered from most to least significant.
</onlyinclude></div><noinclude>
[[Category:Top-level data pages]]
[[fr:Format de chunk/Entité]]
[[ja:Chunkフォーマット/Entity]]
[[ko:청크 형식/개체]]
[[lzh:區塊範式/實體]]
[[pt:Formato de chunk/Entidade]]
[[ru:Формат чанка/Сущность]]
[[th:Chunk format/Entity]]
[[uk:Формат чанку/Сутність]]
</noinclude>