{{distinguish|Commands/data}}
{{exclusive|java}}
{{Infobox command
|name=datapack
|oplevel=
*2 (<code>/datapack (disable<nowiki>|</nowiki>enable<nowiki>|</nowiki>list)</code>)
*4 (<code>/datapack create</code>)
}}

Controls the loading/unloading of [[data pack]]s.

Note that feature flags can be enabled through data pack only when creating the [[world]]. Data packs requiring a feature flag that is not enabled cannot be loaded by this command.

If a built-in datapack in the path of <code>datapacks</code> in the vanilla datapack is enabled during world creating, it cannot be disabled by this command.

==Syntax==

: <code>datapack disable <name></code>
::Disable the specified pack.
: <code>datapack enable <name></code>
::Load the specified pack.
: <code>datapack enable <name> (first|last)</code>
::Load this pack before (lowest priority) or after (highest priority) all others (lowest or highest priority).
: <code>datapack enable <name> (before|after) <existing></code>
::Load this pack just before (lower priority) or after (higher priority) an ''existing'' pack.
: <code>datapack list [available|enabled]</code>
::List all data packs, or list only the available/enabled ones. Hovering over the data packs in the chat output shows their description defined in their <code>pack.mcmeta</code>.
: <code>datapack create <id> <description></code>
::Creates new empty directory data pack for current world.

==Arguments==

{{argument|name|string}}
: Specifies the name of the data pack.
: {{arg desc|je=string|type=phrase}}

{{argument|existing|string}}
: Specifies the name of an existing enabled data pack.
: {{arg desc|je=string|type=phrase}}

{{argument|id|string}}
: Created pack name, must be a valid directory name.
: {{arg desc|je=string|type=phrase}}

{{argument|description|string}} 
: text component to be placed in description in <code>pack.mcmeta</code>.
: {{arg desc|je=string|type=phrase}}

==Result==

{{Result table|onlyje=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.|unparseable}}
{{Result table|cmd=/datapack enable ...<br>/datapack disable ...|<code><name></code> is not a valid data pack.|fail}}
{{Result table|The data pack has already been enabled/disabled.}}
{{Result table|cmd=/datapack enable <name> ...|Pack <code><name></code> requires enabling a feature flag that is not enabled via data pack when creating world.}}
{{Result table|cmd=/datapack enable ... <existing>|<code><existing></code> is not an existing enabled data pack.}}
{{Result table|cmd=|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

== Output ==

{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|On fail|0|0|0}}
{{Output table|cmd=/datapack enable ...<br>/datapack disable ...|On success|1|1|The number of packs that are loaded after executing.}}
{{Output table|cmd=/datapack list [available{{!}}enabled]|On success|1|1|the number of data packs that are listed}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==

{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=17w46a|Added {{cmd|datapack|link=none}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.19.3|dev=22w42a|Added feature flags. Data pack requiring feature flag that is not enabled cannot load by this command now.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w11a|<code>/datapack disable</code> doesn't work in this snapshot.<ref>{{bug|MC-269373|||fixed}}</ref>}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=24w12a|If a built-in datapack in the path of <code>datapacks</code> in the vanilla datapack folder is enabled during world creation, it can no longer be disabled by this command.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.6|dev=25w15a|Added {{cmd|datapack create|link=none}}.}}
}}

== References ==
<references/>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/datapack]]
[[es:Comandos/datapack]]
[[ja:コマンド/datapack]]
[[pt:Comandos/datapack]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/datapack]]
[[th:คำสั่ง/datapack]]
[[zh:命令/datapack]]