{{distinguish|Commands/testforblock}} {{exclusive|bedrock|education}}
{{outdated|edition=java}} 
{{Infobox command
|name=testforblocks
|oplevel=1
|cheat=y
}}

Tests whether the [[blocks]] in two regions match. Shows the number of matching blocks (the total number of blocks in <code>all</code> mode, or the number of source region non-air blocks in <code>masked</code> mode).

==Syntax==

: <code>testforblocks <begin: x y z> <end: x y z> <destination: x y z> [masked|all]</code>

==Arguments==

{{argument|be=1|begin: x y z|CommandPosition}} and {{argument|be=1|end: x y z|CommandPosition}}
: Specifies two opposing corners of the region to use as the pattern to test for (the "source region").
: {{arg desc|be=CommandPosition}}
: Block position is the [[coordinates]] of the point at the lower northwest corner of a block. Because of this, the lesser coordinates of each axis falls right on the region boundary, but the greater coordinates are one block from the boundary, and the block volume of the source region is (x<sub>greater</sub> - x<sub>lesser</sub> + 1) × (y<sub>greater</sub> - y<sub>lesser</sub> + 1) × (z<sub>greater</sub> - z<sub>lesser</sub> + 1). For example, <code>0 0 0 0 0 0</code> has a 1-block volume, and <code>0 0 0 1 1 1</code> and <code>1 1 1 0 0 0</code> both identify the same region with an 8-block volume.

{{argument|be=1|destination: x y z|CommandPosition}}
: Specifies the lower northwestern corner (the corner with the most-negative values) of the region to be checked (the "destination region"). Source and destination regions may overlap.
: {{arg desc|be=CommandPosition}}

<code>masked|all</code>
: Specifies how to match blocks. Must be one of:
:* <code>all</code> — every block in the source and destination regions must match exactly.
:* <code>masked</code> — [[air]] blocks in the source region match any block in the destination region.
: If not specified, defaults to <code>all</code>.

== Result ==

{{Result table|onlybe=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.||unparseable}}
{{Result table|One or both specified regions are unloaded or out of the world.||fail}}
{{Result table|The block volume of the source region is greater than 786432.}}
{{Result table|The source and destination regions do not match.}}
{{Result table|cmd=|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

== Output ==

{{Output table|onlybe=1}}
{{Output table|On fail|0}}
{{Output table|On success|1}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8|dev=14w07a|Added {{cmd|testforblocks|link=none}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=17w45a|Removed {{cmd|testforblocks|link=none}}.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.16.0|dev=build 1|Added {{cmd|testforblocks|link=none}}.}}
}}

== External links ==

* {{Cite|url=https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/commands/commands/testforblocks?view=minecraft-bedrock-stable|title=<code>/testforblocks</code> Command|website=Microsoft Learn|date=October 11, 2023}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/testforblocks]]
[[es:Comandos/testforblocks]]
[[ja:コマンド/testforblocks]]
[[pt:Comandos/testforblocks]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/testforblocks]]
[[zh:命令/testforblocks]]