{{exclusive|java}}
{{debug warning}}
{{Infobox command
|name=spawn_armor_trims
|oplevel=2
|others=<code>-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS</code> [[debug property]]
}}

'''/spawn_armor_trims''' is a command that can be enabled with the [[debug property]] <code>-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS</code>. It spawns [[armor stand]]s wearing trimmed armor.

== Usage ==
A 3-dimensional grid of armor stands with all armor types trimmed with all types of [[armor trim]]s and trim materials is spawned into the world. The armor stands are positioned such that:
* All armor stands on each plane along the X and Y axes have the same trim pattern.
* All armor stands on each plane along the Y and Z axes have the same armor piece.
* All armor stands on each plane along the X and Z axes have the same trim material.
* Each armor stand only has one armor piece.
* All armor stands are invisible, except the ones that wear [[elytra]].
* The armor stands that wear elytra are named "<''trim pattern''> Armor Trim & <''trim material''> Material", colored after the trim material's tooltip text color.
* All armor stands have no gravity.

== Syntax ==
<code>spawn_armor_trims *_lag_my_game</code>
: Spawns the entire grid of armor stands.
<code>spawn_armor_trims <pattern></code>
: Spawns only the plane of armor stands from the grid along the X and Y axes, which has the specified trim pattern.

== Result ==
{{Result table|onlyje=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.|unparseable}}
{{Result table|The specified {{cd|<pattern>}} could not be found.|error}}
{{Result table|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

== Output ==
{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|On success|1|1|0}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.9|dev=Pre-Release 1|Added [[debug property]] <code>-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS</code>, making the command accessible in the vanilla game.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/spawn_armor_trims]]
[[zh:命令/spawn armor trims]]