{{distinguish|Commands/test (Bedrock Edition)}}
{{Exclusive|java}}
{{Infobox command
|name=test
|oplevel=2
}}

Manage and execute [[GameTest]]s.

== Syntax ==
: <code>test (clearall [<radius>]|clearthat|clearthese)</code>
:: Clears the structures and blocks associated with the tests.
: <code>test create <id> [<width>] [<height> <depth>]</code>
:: Creates a test.
: <code>test locate <tests></code>
:: Locates tests in loaded chunks.
: <code>test pos [<nowiki><var></nowiki>]</code>
:: Shows the local coordinates to the block pointed at in the test.
: <code>test (resetclosest|resetthat|resetthese)</code>
:: Resets the structures for the tests.
: <code>test run <tests> [<numberOfTimes>] [<untilFailed>] [<rotationSteps>] [<testsPerRow>]</code>
: <code>test (runclosest|runthat|runthese) [<numberOfTimes>] [<untilFailed>]</code>
: <code>test runmultiple <tests> [<amount>]</code>
:: Runs one or more tests.
: <code>test runfailed [<numberOfTimes>] [<untilFailed>] [<rotationSteps>] [<testsPerRow>]</code>
: <code>test runfailed [<onlyRequiredTests>] [<numberOfTimes>]</code>
:: Runs failed tests.
: <code>test stop</code>
:: Stops all tests.
: <code>test verify <tests></code>
:: Verifies tests.
: <code>test (export <test>|exportclosest|exportthat|exportthese)</code>
:: Exports tests. Only available in IDE environment.

== Arguments ==
{{cd|clearall}}
: Clears all tests within a specified radius.

{{cd|d=and|resetclosest|runclosest|exportclosest}}
: Resets, runs, and exports the closest test within a radius of 15.

{{cd|d=and|clearthat|resetthat|runthat|exportthat}}
: Clears, resets, runs, and exports the test where the crosshair points.

{{cd|d=and|clearthese|resetthese|runthese|exportthese}}
: Clears, resets, runs, and exports all the tests within a radius of 200.

{{argument|radius|integer}}
: Specifies the radius to clear tests within. Defaults to 200.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|id|resource_location}}
: Specifies the ID of a test.
: {{arg desc|je=resource_location}}

{{argument|width|integer}}
: Specifies the width of the test structure. Defaults to 5.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|height|integer}}
: Specifies the height of the test structure. Defaults to the value of {{cd|<width>}}.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|depth|integer}}
: Specifies the depth of the test structure. Defaults to the value of {{cd|<width>}}.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|var|string}}
: Specifies the variable name to include in the copied code snippet. Defaults to {{cd|pos}}.
: {{arg desc|je=string}}

{{argument|tests|resource_selector}}
: Specifies the ID of a test.<!--
: {{arg desc|je=resource_selector}}-->

{{argument|numberOfTimes|integer}}
: Specifies the number of times to repeat each test in different batches. Defaults to 1.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|untilFailed|bool}}
: Specifies if the test should be stopped as soon as one iteration fails. Defaults to {{cd|false}}.
: {{arg desc|je=bool}}

{{argument|rotationSteps|integer}}
: Specifies the number of extra 90 degree steps to apply to the test. Defaults to 0.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|testsPerRow|integer}}
: Specifies the number of tests to place per row in a grid layout. Defaults to 8.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|amount|integer}}
: Specifies the number of times to repeat each test in the same batch. Defaults to 1.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|onlyRequiredTests|bool}}
: Specifies if only necessary tests are needed. Defaults to {{cd|false}}.
: {{arg desc|je=bool}}

{{argument|test|resource}}
: Specifies the ID of a test.
: {{arg desc|je=resource}}

== Result ==
{{Result table|onlyje=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.|unparseable}}
{{Result table|The test does not exist.|fail}}
{{Result table|cmd=/test create ...|{{cd|d=or|<width>|<height>|<depth>}} is greater than 48.}}
{{Result table|cmd=|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

== Output ==
{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|On fail|0|0|0}}
{{Output table|cmd=/test clear ...<br>/test reset ...|On success|1|1|the number of cleared/reset test structures}}
{{Output table|cmd=|On success|1|1|1}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.15|dev=19w34a|Added {{cmd|test|link=none}}, only available in IDE environment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.5|dev=25w03a|{{cmd|test|link=none}} is now accessible through normal gameplay.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/test]]
[[ja:コマンド/test]]
[[pt:Comandos/test]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/test]]
[[zh:命令/test]]