{{Outdated feature}}
{{exclusive|bedrock}}
{{Infobox command
| name = systemstat
| oplevel = 3
| others = [[Cheat]] only
}}

Return or sets video settings and runtime statistics of the game.

==Syntax==
<code>/systemstat <stat: SettableIntStat> [value: int]</code>

* Return or sets specific video settings

<code>/systemstat <stat: SystemStat></code>

* Returns system runtime variables

<code>/systemstat brightness [value: float]</code>

* Sets the brightness of the game. Similar to gamma in [[options.txt]] in Java edition

==Arguments==

{{Argument|stat: SettableIntStat|be=1|Enum}}

Specifies the video setting to return or set. Must be one of the following:

* <code>guiscale</code> for changing GUI scale modifier
* <code>viewdistance</code> for changing rendering distance

{{Argument|value|be=1|int}}

The value to set the setting to.

{{Arg desc|be=int}} Any number outside what the setting allows will be clamped internally.

If not specified, defaults to returning the variable instead.

{{Argument|stat: SystemStat|be=1|Enum}}

The system and game parameters to return. Must be one of the following:

* <code>avgendframetime</code> for average frame time
* <code>avgremaindertimepercent</code> for average remaining time percentage
* <code>avgrendertime</code> for average rendering time
* <code>avgticktime</code> for average ticking time
* <code>avgunaccountedtimepercent</code> for average unaccounted time percentage
* <code>chunkdirtycount</code> for dirty chunk count (number of modified chunks before game ticks)
* <code>chunkrebuildcount</code> for number of chunks to rebuild
* <code>cpu</code> for your system's CPU name
* <code>fps</code> for current FPS
* <code>gpu</code> for your system's GPU name
* <code>gpumemory</code> for allocated GPU memory in megabytes
* <code>msaalevel</code> for your current MSAA level
* <code>os</code> for your system's OS name and version
* <code>paths</code> to display directories used by the game. Including:
** Root path: Internal LocalState/[https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.storage.applicationdata.localfolder ApplicationData.LocalFolder] path, two levels above [[com.mojang|com.mojang]]
** Package path: Installed game path
** Home path: [[com.mojang|com.mojang]] path
** Settings path: <code>minecraftpe</code> directory within [[com.mojang|com.mojang]]
** World path: <code>minecraftWorlds</code> directory within [[com.mojang|com.mojang]]
** Resource Packs Path: ''(See [[resource packs#Bedrock_Edition|resource packs]])''
** Data URL: [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/app-resources/uri-schemes#ms-appx-and-ms-appx-web Internal URI for UWP applications]
** External file path: External [[com.mojang|com.mojang]] path for Android. ''(See [[com.mojang#Android_quirks|Android quirks]])''
** User data path: Same as home path
** Temporary file path: Same as settings path
* <code>profilersecondsperupdate</code> for time spent on profiling per tick
* <code>resolution</code> for current resolution of the game window
* <code>systeminfo</code> to display your OS, memory usage, CPU, resolution, GPU name, maximum GPU memory, MSAA level and render distance
* <code>systemmem</code> for allocated memory in megabytes
* <code>xbl</code> to display the player's Xbox live profile

{{Argument|value|be=1|float}}

The value to set the brightness to.

{{Arg desc|be=float|min=0|max=1}} Valid values are between 0 and 1 (inclusive). Any number outside this range will be clamped internally.

If not specified, defaults to returning the current brightness instead.

==Result==
{{Result table|onlybe=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.||unparseable}}
{{Result table|succeed}}
{{Result table}}


== History ==

{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.2.13|dev=release|Accidentally added developer commands to iOS, including {{cmd|link=none|systemstat}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.2.14|Removed all developer commands.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}