{{exclusive|java}}
{{Infobox command
|name=advancement 
|oplevel=2
}}

Gives or takes an [[advancement]] or its criterion from one or more players.

== Syntax ==
: <code>advancement (grant|revoke) <targets> everything</code>
:: Adds or removes ''all'' loaded advancements.
: <code>advancement (grant|revoke) <targets> only <advancement> [<criterion>]</code>
:: Adds or removes a single advancement or criterion.
: <code>advancement (grant|revoke) <targets> from <advancement></code>
:: Adds or removes an advancement and ''all'' its child advancements.
:: Think of specifying everything ''from'' that advancement to the end.
:: The exact order the operation is carried out in is <code>specified advancement > child > child's child > ...</code> When it operates on a child that branches, it iterates through all its children before continuing.
: <code>advancement (grant|revoke) <targets> through <advancement></code>
:: Specifies an advancement, and adds or removes ''all'' its parent advancements, and ''all'' its child advancements.
:: Think of specifying everything ''through'' the specified advancement, going both backward and forward.
:: The exact order the operation is as if the command were executed with "until" specified, then with "from" specified: <code>parent > parent's parent > ... >  root > specified advancement > child > child's child > ...</code>
: <code>advancement (grant|revoke) <targets> until <advancement></code>
:: Adds or removes an advancement and ''all'' its parent advancements until the root for addition/removal.
:: Think of specifying everything from the start ''until'' that advancement.
:: The exact order the operation is carried out in is: <code>parent > parent's parent > ... >  root > specified advancement</code>.

== Arguments ==
{{cd|grant{{!}}revoke}}
: Specifies whether to add or remove the to-be-specified advancement(s).

{{argument|targets|entity}}
: Specifies one player or more.
: {{arg desc|je=entity|amount=multiple|type=players}}

{{argument|advancement|resource_location}}
: Specifies a valid resource location of the advancement to target.
: {{arg desc|je=resource_location}}

{{argument|criterion|string}}
: Specifies a valid criterion of the advancement to manipulate.
: The command defaults to the entire advancement.
: If specified, the command refers to merely the criterion and not the entire advancement.
: {{arg desc|je=string|type=greedy}}

== Result ==
{{Result table|onlyje=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.|unparseable}}
{{Result table|<code><targets></code> fails to resolve to one or more online players.|fail}}
{{Result table|There's no advancement (or criterion) added to (or remove from) any player.}}
{{Result table|cmd=/... only <advancement> <criterion>|The {{cd|<criterion>}} is invalid for the {{cd|<advancement>}}.}}
{{Result table|cmd=|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

== Output ==
{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|On fail|0|0|0}}
{{Output table|On success|1|1|the total number of advancements(or criterions) added to (or removed from) each player.}}
{{Output table}}

== Examples ==
* To grant the "Cover Me With Diamonds" advancement to the player, execute the command <code>/advancement grant @s only minecraft:story/shiny_gear</code>.
* To grant all advancements to every player, execute <code>/advancement grant @a everything</code>.
* To revoke "Cover Me With Diamonds" advancement from the player, execute the command <code>/advancement revoke @s only minecraft:story/shiny_gear</code>.
* To revoke all advancements from every player, execute <code>/advancement revoke @a everything</code>.

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.12|dev=17w13a|Added {{cd|/advancement}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=17w45a|Removed {{cd|/advancement test}} in favor of [[Commands#Selecting targets by advancements|advancement target selectors]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.3|dev=23w45a|The {{cd|/advancement}} no longer throws unhandled expections when fails.}}
}}

== See also ==
* {{cmd|gamerule announceAdvancements}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/advancement]]
[[es:Comandos/advancement]]
[[ja:コマンド/advancement]]
[[nl:Opdrachten/advancement]]
[[pt:Comandos/advancement]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/advancement]]
[[uk:Команди консолі/advancement]]
[[zh:命令/advancement]]