{{exclusive|java}}
{{debug warning}}
{{Infobox command
|name=chase
|oplevel=0
|others=<code>-DMC_DEBUG_CHASE_<br />COMMAND</code> [[debug property]]
}}

'''/chase''' is a command that can be enabled with the [[debug property]] <code>-DMC_DEBUG_CHASE_COMMAND</code>. It teleports a following player to the same position and rotation angle as a leading player whenever that leading player moves. This works even between different worlds and when the following player's Singleplayer game is paused.

== Syntax ==
<code>chase lead [<bind_address>] [<port>]</code>
: Starts a server that can be accessed on this IP address and port. It transmits the player's position whenever that player's position or facing angle changes.
: By default, prints "Chase server is now running on port ''<port>''. Clients can follow you using /chase follow <ip> <port>.". The default host is <code>localhost</code> and the default port 10000. If <code>chase follow</code> or <code>chase lead</code> has already been used without <code>chase stop</code> afterwards, prints the error "Chase server is already running. Stop it using /chase stop."
<code>chase follow [<host>] [<port>]</code>
: Starts following the movements transmitted by the server and printing the coordinates to chat. The following player can still move independently, but gets teleported back whenever position information is received.
: By default, prints "You are now chasing ''<host>'':''<port>''". If that server does '/chase lead', then you will automatically go to the same position. Use `/chase stop` to stop chasing.". The default host is <code>localhost</code> and the default port 10000. If <code>chase follow</code> or <code>chase lead</code> has already been used without <code>chase stop</code> afterwards, prints the error "You are already chasing someone. Stop it using /chase stop.".
<code>chase stop</code>
: Stops transmitting or receiving positions, depending on which sub-command was used before. Prints "You have now stopped chasing" or "You are no longer being chased" respectively. If no chase is active, does nothing and prints nothing.

== Arguments ==
{{argument|bind_address|string}}
: A hostname or IP address, to be used for transmitting locations. E.g. "<code>localhost</code>" and "<code>127.0.0.1</code>" are equivalent.
: {{arg desc|je=string|type=string}}
{{argument|host|string}}
: Same as <code>bind_address</code>, except for receiving. Also called "<code>ip</code>" in the <code>/chase lead</code> chat output.
: {{arg desc|je=string|type=string}}
{{argument|port|integer}}
: Network port, to be used for transmitting or receiving locations.
: {{arg desc|je=integer|min=1 (for {{cd|chase follow}}), or 1024 (for {{cd|chase lead}})|max=65535}}

== Result ==
{{Result table|onlyje=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.|unparseable}}
{{Result table|succeed}}<!-- even though there are failure messages in the code, the command actually succeeds when sending them -->
{{Result table}}

== Output ==
{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|On success|1|1|0}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.9|dev=25w37a|Added [[debug property]] <code>-DMC_DEBUG_CHASE_COMMAND</code>, making the command accessible in the vanilla game.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/chase]]
[[zh:命令/chase]]