{{for|the command {{in|java}} that can place structures|Commands/place}}
{{exclusive|bedrock|education}}
{{Infobox command
|name=structure
|oplevel=1
|cheat=y
}}

Used to save and load structures without having to use [[structure block]]s.

==Syntax==

:<code>structure save <name: string> <from: x y z> <to: x y z> [saveMode: StructureSaveMode]</code>
:<code>structure save <name: string> <from: x y z> <to: x y z> [includeEntities: Boolean] [saveMode: StructureSaveMode] [includeBlocks: Boolean]</code>
:: Saves a structure.
:<code>structure load <name: string> <to: x y z> [rotation: Rotation] [mirror: Mirror] [includeEntities: Boolean] [includeBlocks: Boolean] [waterlogged: Boolean] [integrity: float] [seed: string]</code>
:<code>structure load <name: string> <to: x y z> [rotation: Rotation] [mirror: Mirror] [animationMode: StructureAnimationMode] [animationSeconds: float] [includeEntities: Boolean] [includeBlocks: Boolean] [waterlogged: Boolean] [integrity: float] [seed: string]</code>
:: Loads a structure.
:<code>structure delete <name: string></code>
:: Deletes saved structure file.

==Arguments==
{{main|Structure Block}}

{{argument|be=1|name: string|basic_string}}
: {{arg desc|be=basic_string}}
: Should be in the format of <code>name</code> or <code>namespace:name</code>. If namespace is unspecified, defaults to <code>mystructure:</code>

{{argument|be=1|from: x y z|CommandPosition}} and {{argument|be=1|to: x y z|CommandPosition}} (in <code>save</code> mode)
: Specifies any two opposing corner blocks of the region to be saved.
: {{arg desc|be=CommandPosition}}

{{argument|be=1|to: x y z|CommandPosition}} (in <code>load</code> mode)
: Specifies the lower northwest corner of the destination region.
: {{arg desc|be=CommandPosition}}

{{argument|be=1|saveMode: StructureSaveMode|enum}}
: Specifies the storage location.
: Must be one of <code>disk</code> and <code>memory</code>. If not specified, defaults to memory.
:<code>disk</code> saves the structure to the world database itself. After leaving and rejoining the world, the structure save files is still there.
:<code>memory</code> only saves the structure in memery temporarily. When leaving and rejoining the world, the structure save files are gone.

{{argument|be=1|includeEntities: Boolean|enum}}
: Specifies whether including entities or not. If unspecified, defaults to <code>true</code>.
: {{arg desc|be=bool}}

{{argument|be=1|rotation: Rotation|enum}}
: Specifies the rotation when loading a structure. If unspecified, defaults to <code>0_degrees</code>.
: Must be one of <code>0_degrees</code>, <code>90_degrees</code>, <code>180_degrees</code>, and <code>270_degrees</code>.

{{argument|be=1|mirror: Mirror|enum}}
: Specifies the axis of mirror flip when loading a structure. If unspecified, defaults to <code>none</code>.
: Must be one of <code>x</code>, <code>z</code>, <code>xz</code>, and <code>none</code>.

{{argument|be=1|animationMode: StructureAnimationMode|enum}}
: Specifies the animation to generate structures.
: Must be one of <code>block_by_block</code> and <code>layer_by_layer</code>.

{{argument|be=1|animationSeconds: float|float}}
: Specifies the duration of the animation.
: {{arg desc|be=float}}

{{argument|be=1|includeBlocks: Boolean|enum}}
: Specifies whether including blocks or not. If unspecified, defaults to <code>true</code>.
: {{arg desc|be=bool}}

{{argument|be=1|integrity: float|float}}
: Specifies the integrity (probability of each block being loaded). If 100, all blocks in the structure are loaded. If 0, no blocks are loaded. If unspecified, defaults to <code>100</code>.
: {{arg desc|be=float}} Should be between 0 and 100 (inclusive).

{{argument|be=1|seed: string|basic_string}}
: Specifies the seed when calculating whether a block should be loaded according to integrity. If unspecified, a random seed is taken.
: {{arg desc|be=basic_string}}

{{argument|be=1|waterlogged: Boolean|enum}}
:Specifies whether or not waterlog the blocks when the structure is loaded in water. If unspecified, defaults to <code>false</code>.
: {{arg desc|be=bool}}

==Result==

{{Result table|onlybe=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.||unparseable}}
{{Result table|One or both specified regions are unloaded or out of the world.||fail}}
{{Result table|cmd=/structure save ...|The region is greater than 64 * 384 * 64.}}
{{Result table|cmd=/structure load ...<br>/structure delete ...|The specified structure does not exist.}}
{{Result table|cmd=/structure load ...|<code>integrity: float</code> is lower than 0 or higher than 100.}}
{{Result table|cmd=|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

==Output==

{{Output table|onlybe=1}}
{{Output table|edition=be|On fail|0}}
{{Output table|On success|1}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==

{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.16.100|dev=beta 1.16.100.52|Added {{cmd|structure|link=none}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=beta 1.16.100.60|Added the ability to animate the placement of a structure.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.16.210|dev=beta 1.16.210.54|{{cmd|structure|link=none}} now has the ability to delete saved structure files.}}
}}

== External links ==

* {{Cite|url=https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/commands/commands/structure?view=minecraft-bedrock-stable|title=<code>/structure</code> Command|website=Microsoft Learn|date=June 25, 2025}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/structure]]
[[es:Comandos/structure]]
[[ja:コマンド/structure]]
[[pt:Comandos/structure]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/structure]]
[[zh:命令/structure]]