{{for|the command that used to places a [[feature]], [[jigsaw block|jigsaw]], [[structure]], and structure template|Commands/place}}
{{Outdated|edition=education}}
{{Infobox command
|name=place
|hidden=1
|oplevel=0
}}

Lets the player's [[agent]] right-click on the block in the specified direction.

==Syntax==
: {{cd|place <slotNum: int> <direction: string>}}

==Arguments==
{{cd|slotNum: int}}
: Specifies the slot number of block to be placed, slots are numbered from 1 to 27.

{{cd|direction: string}}
: Specifies the direction of Agent to place the block.
: Must be one of:
:* {{cd|forward}} to place the block on the front.
:* {{cd|back}} to place the block on the back.
:* {{cd|left}} to place the block on the left-hand side.
:* {{cd|right}} to place the block on the right-hand side.
:* {{cd|up}} to place the block on the top-hand side.
:* {{cd|down}} to place the block on the bottom-hand side.

==Result==
Fails if the arguments are not specified correctly or the specified slot was empty.

On success, returns if a block in the specified inventory slot was placed.

==Note==
This basically places a block (ex: Place Stone Block) or a placeable item (ex: Place Oak Fence) from the selected inventory slot in the specified direction. 

However, this doesn’t interact with things like doors, levers, and containers.

Additionally, when player specifies a slot which contains the following non-place-able items, this behaves as follows:
: Place [[water]]/[[lava]]
:* [[Bucket]]
: Till grass
:* [[Hoe]]
: Make a path
:* [[Shovel]]
: Spawn a mob
:* [[Spawn Egg]]s
: Dye something
:* [[Dye]]s
: Make a fire
:* [[Flint and Steel]]
:* [[Fire Charge]]
: Placeable material
:* [[Boat]]
:* [[Minecart]]
:* [[Glass Bottle]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[pt:Comandos/place_(Education)]]
[[zh:命令/place（已移除）]]