{{education feature}}
{{Infobox command
|name=ability
|oplevel=1
|cheat=y
}}

Sets or queries a player with a specific ability.

== Syntax ==
: <code>ability <player: target> <ability: Ability> [value: Boolean]</code>
: <code>ability <player: target> [ability: Ability]</code>

== Arguments ==
{{argument|be=1|player: target|CommandSelector<Player>}}
: Specifies the target for which to grant/revoke/query the ability.

{{argument|be=1|ability: Ability|enum}}
: Specifies the player ability. 
: These abilities are:
:* <code>worldbuilder</code> gives the selector the ability to become a world builder. This allows the player to build - even in ''[[Adventure mode|Adventure Mode]]''.
:* <code>mayfly</code> lets the selector [[Flying|fly]] as if they were in [[Creative Mode]].
:* <code>mute</code> mutes the selector. If they [[chat]], no one can hear (or see) their message.

{{argument|be=1|value: Boolean|enum}}
: Specifies the value to set the ability to, must be either <code>true</code> or <code>false</code>. If not specified, returns the current ability's value.

== Result ==
Fails if the arguments are not specified correctly.

On success, sets the player ability into the specified ability. If <code>value: Boolean</code> isn't specified, returns whether the player has the specified ability. If <code>ability: Ability</code> isn't specified, returns what abilities the player has.

== History ==
=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.16.0|dev=build 1|Added {{cd|/ability}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.5.0|dev=beta 1.5.0.4|Added the function of query.}}
}}

=== ''Minecraft Education'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|education}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.7|Added {{cd|/ability}}.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[es:Comandos/ability]]
[[fr:Commandes#ability]]
[[ja:コマンド/ability]]
[[lzh:令/ability]]
[[pt:Comandos/ability]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/ability]]
[[zh:命令/ability]]
[[de:Befehl/ability]]