{{distinguish|Commands/debugmobspawning|Commands/debugpath}}
{{exclusive|java}}
{{debug warning}}
{{Infobox command
| name = debugconfig
| oplevel = 3
| others = Dedicated server and <br /><code>-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS</code> [[debug property]]
}}

'''/debugconfig''' is a command that can be enabled with the [[debug property]] <code>-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS</code>. It allows sending a player back to [[Java_Edition_protocol/Packets#Configuration|configuration phase]].

== Syntax ==
<code>debugconfig config <target></code>
: Removes the target player's avatar from the world and switches their connection back to the configuration phase. While in this state, the player's client sees a "Reconfiguring..." screen with a "Disconnect" button that is initially grayed out, and is enabled after 20 seconds.
<code>debugconfig unconfig <target></code>
: Fully connects the player with the target UUID back into the server, if a player with the target UUID is connected and in the configuration phase.
<code>debugconfig dialog <target> <dialog></code>
: Shows the player with the target UUID the specified dialog, if a player with the target UUID is connected and in the configuration phase.

== Arguments ==
{{argument|target|entity}}
: Only for {{cd|debugconfig config}}. Specifies the target player to switch to the configuration phase.
: {{arg desc|je=entity|amount=single|type=player}}
{{argument|target|uuid}}
: Only for {{cd|debugconfig unconfig}} and {{cd|debugconfig dialog}}. Specifies the UUID of a connected player in the configuration phase to fully connect to the server or to show a dialog to.
: {{arg desc|je=uuid}}
{{argument|dialog|dialog}}
: Specifies the dialog to show to a player in the configuration phase.
: Must be either:
:* A namespaced ID of a dialog defined in a data pack (e.g., {{code|custom:my_dialog}} or {{code|minecraft:server_links}}). These are stored in the {{cd|minecraft:dialog}} registry.
:* An inline [[SNBT]] defining the dialog structure directly in the command. See {{slink|Dialog|Dialog format}} for the structures.

== Result ==
{{Result table|onlyje=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.|unparseable}}
{{Result table|succeed}}<!-- even though there are failure messages in the code, the command actually succeeds when sending them -->
{{Result table}}

== Output ==
{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|cmd=/debugconfig config &lt;target&gt;|On success|1|1|1}}
{{Output table|cmd=/debugconfig unconfig &lt;target&gt;|On success|1|1|1 if a player in the configuration phase was found and fully connected, 0 otherwise}}
{{Output table|cmd=/debugconfig dialog &lt;target&gt; &lt;dialog&gt;|On success|1|1|1 if a player in the configuration phase was found and shown a dialog, 0 otherwise}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.9|dev=Pre-Release 1|Added [[debug property]] <code>-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS</code>, making the command accessible in the vanilla game.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/debugconfig]]
[[zh:命令/debugconfig]]