{{For|the {{JE}} equivalent|Commands/forceload}}{{exclusive|bedrock|education}}
{{Infobox command
|name=tickingarea
|oplevel=1
|cheat=y
}}

Add, remove, or list [[ticking area]]s.

==Usage==

Up to 10 ticking areas can be defined at one time.

Ticking areas typically load after the [[world]] is launched, unless it is marked with "preload". Ticking areas that are marked as preload are loaded before loading other [[chunks]] when launching the world.

==Syntax==

:<code>tickingarea add <from: x y z> <to: x y z> [name: string] [preload: Boolean]</code>
::Adds a ticking area consisting of all chunks that overlap any part of the rectangle.
:<code>tickingarea add circle <center: x y z> <radius: int> [name: string] [preload: Boolean]</code>
::Adds a ticking area consisting of all chunks that overlap any part of the circle.
:<code>tickingarea remove <name: string></code>
::Deletes the ticking area with that name is deleted.
:<code>tickingarea remove <position: x y z></code>
::Deletes all ticking areas that include the point at those [[coordinates]].
:<code>tickingarea remove_all</code>
::Deletes all currently defined ticking areas.
:<code>tickingarea list [all-dimensions: AllDimensions]</code>
::Displays the ticking areas in the current dimension. If the optional <code>all-dimensions: AllDimensions</code> argument is specified, the list includes all ticking areas currently defined.
:<code>tickingarea preload <name: string> [preload: Boolean]</code>
::Queries, marks or unmarks the specified ticking area as "preload" or not.
:<code>tickingarea preload <position: x y z> [preload: Boolean]</code>
::Queries, marks or unmarks the ticking areas that include the specified position as "preload".

==Arguments==

''A Y coordinate is not actually needed to identify a chunk, because a chunk spans the entire vertical height of the world. Nevertheless, a Y coordinate must be entered where shown in the arguments below. It can have any value, but is always stored as 0.''

{{argument|be=1|from: x y z|CommandPosition}} and {{argument|be=1|to: x y z|CommandPosition}}
: Specifies the coordinates of opposite corners of a rectangular area used to define a loaded area.
: {{arg desc|be=CommandPosition}}
: For <code>x</code> and <code>z</code>, numbers less than -30,000,000 or greater than 30,000,000 are treated as -30,000,000 or 30,000,000 respectively.

{{argument|be=1|center: x y z|CommandPosition}}
: Specifies the coordinates of the center point of a circular area used to define a ticking area.
: {{arg desc|be=CommandPosition}}
: For <code>x</code> and <code>z</code>, numbers less than -30,000,000 or greater than 30,000,000 are treated as -30,000,000 or 30,000,000 respectively.

{{argument|be=1|radius: int|int}}
:Specifies the radius of a circular ticking area as the number of chunks from the center to the edge of the circle. It must be from 0 to 4.
: {{arg desc|be=int}} It should be between 0 and 2,147,483,647 (inclusive).

{{argument|be=1|name: string|basic_string}}
: Specifies an optional name for a ticking area.
: {{arg desc|be=string}}

{{argument|be=1|preload: Boolean|enum}}
: If unspecified in <code>preload</code> mode, queries the current preload value.
: {{arg desc|be=bool}}

{{argument|be=1|position: x y z|CommandPosition}}
:Specifies the coordinates of a point within the ticking area(s).
: {{arg desc|be=CommandPosition}}

{{argument|be=1|all-dimensions: AllDimensions|enum}}
:Must be <code>all-dimensions</code>, specifies whether the ticking area in other dimensions should be listed.

==Result==

{{Result table|onlybe=1}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.||unparseable}}
{{Result table|cmd=/tickingarea add ...|Attempting to add an 11th ticking area.||fail}}
{{Result table|Attempting to add a ticking area larger than 100 chunks or a circular ticking area with a radius less than 0 or greater than 4 chunks.}}
{{Result table|Attempting to add a ticking area with a duplicate name.}}
{{Result table|cmd=/tickingarea remove ...<br>/tickingarea preload ...|There's no ticking area with the specified name or including the specified coordinates.}}
{{Result table|cmd=/tickingarea remove_all<br>/tickingarea list ...|There's no defined ticking area.}}
{{Result table|cmd=|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

== Output ==

{{Output table|onlybe=1}}
{{Output table|edition=be|On fail|0}}
{{Output table|On success|1}}
{{Output table}}

==Examples==
*To define a rectangular ticking area covering the rectangle area from (280, 72, 105) to (328, 78, 130), enter either <code>/tickingarea add 280 0 105 328 0 130</code> or <code>/tickingarea add 280 0 130 328 0 105</code>.
*To define a circular ticking area named "Homebase" centered on the chunk you're currently in and extending 2 chunks in every direction, enter <code>/tickingarea add circle ~ ~ ~ 2 Homebase</code>.
*To remove the ticking area named "world spawn", enter <code>/tickingarea remove "world spawn"</code>.
*To remove all ticking areas that contain the block at coordinates (-200, 72, 1000), enter <code>/tickingarea remove -200 72 1000</code>.
*To list all ticking areas defined in all dimensions enter: <code>/tickingarea list all-dimensions</code>

== History ==

{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.2.0|dev=beta 1.2.0.2|Added {{cmd|tickingarea|link=none}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.18.20|dev=beta 1.18.20.21|Added {{cd|preload: Boolean}} to {{cmd|tickingarea add ...|link=none}}.|Added {{cmd|tickingarea preload ...|link=none}}.}}
}}

== External links ==

* {{Cite|url=https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/commands/commands/tickingarea?view=minecraft-bedrock-stable|title=<code>/tickingarea</code> Command|website=Microsoft Learn|date=October 11, 2023}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/tickingarea]]
[[es:Comandos/tickingarea]]
[[ja:コマンド/tickingarea]]
[[pt:Comandos/tickingarea]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/tickingarea]]
[[zh:命令/tickingarea]]