{{Infobox command
|name=clear
|oplevel=
* 2 {{only|java|short=1}}
* 1 {{only|bedrock|short=1}}
|others=[[Cheat]] only{{only|bedrock|short=1}}
}}

Clears [[item]]s from player [[inventory]], including items being dragged by the [[player]]. Can also detect and query the amount of specified items.

== Usage ==

Items in the inventory and items from container (chest, crafting table, etc.) dragging over the cursor can be cleared.

{{IN|bedrock}}, items dragging from the inventory can also be cleared, while {{in|java}} only if not in creative mode can these be cleared.

{{IN|java}}, items in players' four crafting slots can also be cleared.

== Syntax ==

* '''Java Edition'''
: <code>clear [<targets>] [<item>] [<maxCount>]</code>

* '''Bedrock Edition'''
: <code>clear [player: target] [itemName: Item] [data: int] [maxCount: int]</code>

== Arguments ==
{{argument|targets|entity|player: target|CommandSelector<Player>}}
: Specifies the player(s) whose items are cleared. If not specified, defaults to the player who executes the command.
: {{arg desc|je=entity|amount=multiple|type=players|be=player}}

{{argument|item|item_predicate|itemName: Item|enum}}
: Specifies the item to be cleared. If not specified, all items are cleared.
: {{arg desc|je=item_predicate|be=CommandItem}}

{{argument|be=1|data: int|int}}
: Specifies the [[Bedrock Edition data values|data value]] of the item to be cleared. If not specified, or if <code>-1</code>, all items that match <code>itemName: Item</code> are cleared, regardless of their data. Values (bitwise AND 0xFFFF) that are invalid for the specified item id revert to 0.
: {{arg desc|be=int}} Should be between -1 and 2,147,483,647 (inclusive, without commas).

{{argument|maxCount|integer|maxCount: int|int}}
: Specifies the maximum number of items to be cleared. If not specified, or if <code>-1</code>{{only|bedrock}}, all items that match <code>item</code>, or <code>itemName: Item</code> and <code>data: int</code> are cleared. If <code>0</code>, instead of clearing of items, detects and queries the amount of specified items.
: {{arg desc|be=int|je=integer|min=0}} {{IN|bedrock}}, it should be between -1 and 2147483647 (inclusive).

== Result ==

{{Result table}}
{{Result table|The command is incomplete, or any argument is not specified correctly.|unparseable|unparseable}}
{{Result table|<code><targets></code> or <code>player: target</code> is not specified when the command's executor is not a player.|fail|fail}}
{{Result table|<code>player: target</code> is a target selector that is not in [[Target_selectors#Player_type_and_single_type|player type]].|N/A|}}
{{Result table|<code><targets></code> or <code>player: target</code> fails to resolve to one or more online players.|fail}}
{{Result table|There are no specified items in any player's inventory.}}
{{Result table|<code>data: int</code> is lower than -1.|N/A}}
{{Result table|<code>maxCount: int</code> is lower than -1.}}
{{Result table|succeed}}
{{Result table}}

== Output ==

{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|On fail|0|0|0}}
{{Output table|On success|1|1|the number of total items that are cleared or detected.}}
{{Output table|edition=be|On fail|0}}
{{Output table|On success|the number of players who have the specified items.}}
{{Output table}}

== Examples ==
* To clear your entire inventory: <code>clear</code>
* To clear all items from Alice's inventory: <code>clear Alice</code>
* To clear all wool items from Alice's inventory: <code>clear Alice #minecraft:wool</code>{{only|Java}}
* To clear all orange wool items from the inventory of all players: <code>clear @a minecraft:wool 1</code>{{only|Bedrock}} or <code> clear @a minecraft:orange_wool</code>
* To clear all golden swords with the "Sharpness I" enchantment from the nearest player
** <code>clear @p minecraft:golden_sword{Enchantments:[{id:"minecraft:sharpness",lvl:1s}]}</code>{{only|Java}}
*To test if a random player has stone in their inventory: <code>clear @r minecraft:stone 0 0</code>{{only|Bedrock}} or <code> clear @r minecraft:stone 0</code>{{only|Java}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.4.2|dev=12w37a|Added {{cmd|clear|link=none}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=12w38a|Added {{cd|item}} argument to {{cmd|clear|link=none}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8|dev=14w02a|Added {{cd|data}} argument to {{cmd|clear|link=none}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9|dev=15w31b|{{cmd|clear|link=none}} now clears the offhand slot.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=17w45a|The syntax of {{cmd|clear|link=none}} has changed from {{cmd|clear [<target>] [<item>] [<data>] [<count>] [<nbt>]}} to
 {{cmd|clear [<target>] [<item>] [<count>]}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.16|dev=20w07a|{{cmd|clear|link=none}} now clears the items in the inventory crafting grid.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=20w22a|{{cmd|clear|link=none}} now works properly with the inventory crafting grid.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w09a|Updated the syntax. Now uses [[item component]]s instead of [[NBT]] tags.|Now target items must have every component that is the same as the specified key-value pair, or the default value of the component if it is not specified.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.5|dev=alpha 1.0.5.0|Added {{cmd|clear|link=none}}.}}
}}

== See also ==
* {{cmd|data}} — can change or remove items in block or entity inventories
* {{cmd|give}} — give items to player
* {{cmd|kill}} — can destroy item entities
* {{cmd|item}}{{only|java}} — can manipulate items in block or entity inventories
* {{cmd|replaceitem}}{{only|bedrock}} — can replace items in block or entity inventories

== External links ==

* {{Cite|url=https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/commands/commands/clear?view=minecraft-bedrock-stable|title=<code>/clear</code> Command|website=Microsoft Learn|date=October 11, 2023}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/clear]]
[[es:Comandos/clear]]
[[fr:Commandes/clear]]
[[ja:コマンド/clear]]
[[ko:명령어/clear]]
[[pt:Comandos/clear]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/clear]]
[[th:คำสั่ง/clear]]
[[uk:Команди консолі/clear]]
[[zh:命令/clear]]