{{exclusive|java}}
{{Infobox command
|name=random
|oplevel=
*0 (<code>/random (roll<nowiki>|</nowiki>value)</code> without the <code><sequence></code> argument)
*2 (<code>/random reset</code> and the <code><sequence></code> argument in <code>/random (roll<nowiki>|</nowiki>value)</code>)
}}

Generates a random integer, or controls [[random sequence]]s in the world.

== Syntax ==
<code>random <nowiki>(value|roll) <range></nowiki></code>
: Outputs a random integer.
: Range is given by two integers separated by two periods where the first given number must always be smaller than the second given number.

<code>random <nowiki>(value|roll) <range> <sequence></nowiki></code>
: Samples a random integer from the specified random sequence. If the sequence does not exist, it is created with the random sequence settings of the world.

<code>random reset *</code>
: Removes all the random sequences in the world. A random sequence is created with the settings of the world when called by a loot table.

<code>random reset <nowiki>* <seed> [<includeWorldSeed>] [<includeSequenceId>]</nowiki></code>
: Removes all the random sequences in the world, and sets the random sequence settings of the world. The setting of the world is <code>0</code>, <code>true</code>, <code>true</code>, if having not executed <code>/random reset * ...</code> command in the world.

<code>random <nowiki>reset <sequence></nowiki></code>
: Removes and re-creates a random sequence with the settings of the world. If the sequence does not exist, it is just created.

<code>random <nowiki>reset <sequence> [<seed>] [<includeWorldSeed>] [<includeSequenceId>]</nowiki></code>
: Removes and re-creates a random sequence with the specified settings instead of the settings of the world. If the sequence does not exist, it is just created.

{{see also|Random sequence format#Usage}}

== Arguments ==

{{code|value{{!}}roll}}
: Whether or not to notify other players of the results when extracting random numbers.
: If it is <code>value</code>, the result is displayed in chat only to the player executing the command. If <code>roll</code>, the result is broadcasted to all players.

{{argument|range|int_range}}
: Specifies the range to pick the random number from. The size of the range (calculated by <code>max - min + 1</code>) should be between 2 and 2147483646.
: {{arg desc|je=int_range}}

{{argument|sequence|resource_location}}
: Specifies the [[resource location]] of a [[random sequence]] to sample or reset.
: If there's no sequence with the specified [[resource location]], it is created.
: {{arg desc|je=resource_location}}

{{argument|seed|int}}
: The salt value.
: {{arg desc|je=integer}}

{{argument|includeWorldSeed|bool}}
: Whether to incorporate the world seed value with the specified <code><seed></code> when seeding a random sequence. If not specified, defaults to <code>true</code>.
: {{arg desc|je=bool}}

{{argument|includeSequenceId|bool}}
:Whether to incorporate the hash of the ID with the specified <code><seed></code> when seeding a random sequence. If not specified, defaults to <code>true</code>.
: {{arg desc|je=bool}}

== Examples ==
{{code|/random roll 1..5}}

Rolls a random number between 1 and 5 and writes it in chat

{{code|execute store result score @p random_number run random value 1..10}}

Generates a random number between 1 and 10 and stores it in a scoreboard called {{code|random_number}}  for the nearest player

{{code|/execute store result score player random_number run random value 1..3}}

{{code|/tellraw @a [{text:"Rolled number "},{"score": {"name": "player", "objective": "random_number"} }]}}

Generates a number between 1 and 3 and displays it with message "Rolled number <rolled number>"

== Result ==
{{Result table|onlyje=1}}
{{Result table|the arguments are not specified correctly|unparseable}}
{{Result table|cmd=/random (value{{!}}roll) ...|{{Cd|<range>}}range is less than 2 or greater than 2147483646|fail}}
{{Result table|cmd=|success}}
{{Result table}}


== Output ==
{{Output table}}
{{Output table|edition=je|On fail|0|0|0}}
{{Output table|cmd=/random (value{{!}}roll) ... |On success|1|1|the obtained random value}}
{{Output table|cmd=/random reset <sequence> ... |On success|1|1|1}}
{{Output table|cmd=/random reset * ... |On success|1|1|the number of random sequences currently in the world}}
{{Output table}}

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|Java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.2|dev=23w31a|Added {{cd|/random}}.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox commands}}

[[de:Befehl/random]]
[[ja:コマンド/random]]
[[pt:Comandos/random]]
[[ru:Команды консоли/random]]
[[zh:命令/random]]