<div class="treeview"><onlyinclude>
** {{nbt|string|type}}: The type of the int provider. One of <code>constant</code>, <code>uniform</code>, <code>biased_to_bottom</code>, <code>clamped</code>, <code>clamped_normal</code>, or <code>weighted_list</code>.
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>constant</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|int|value}}: The constant value to use.
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>uniform</code> or <code>biased_to_bottom</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|int|min_inclusive}}: The minimum possible value.
** {{nbt|int|max_inclusive}}: The maximum possible value. Cannot be less than {{Nbt|int|min_inclusive}}. 
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>clamped</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|int|min_inclusive}}: The minimum allowed value that the number will be.
** {{nbt|int|max_inclusive}}: The maximum allowed value that the number will be. Cannot be less than {{Nbt|int|min_inclusive}}.
** {{nbt|int}}{{nbt|compound|source}}: The source int provider
*** {{nbt inherit/int_provider}}
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>clamped_normal</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|float|mean}}: The mean value of the normal distribution.
** {{nbt|float|deviation}}: The deviation of the normal distribution.
** {{nbt|int|min_inclusive}}: The minimum allowed value that the number will be.
** {{nbt|int|max_inclusive}}: The maximum allowed value that the number will be.
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>weighted_list</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|list|distribution}}: A random pool of int providers.
*** {{nbt|compound}}: One entry in the random pool.
**** {{nbt|int}}{{nbt|compound|data}}: An int.
***** {{nbt inherit/int_provider}}
**** {{nbt|int|weight}}: The weight of this entry.
</onlyinclude></div><noinclude>
[[Category:Java Edition]]

[[fr:Génération du monde personnalisée/Fournisseur d'entier]]
[[ja:生成物のカスタマイズ/int provider]]
[[ko:설정된 지물/정수 제공자]]
[[pt:Recurso configurado/provedor de número inteiro]]
[[ru:Натуральные декорации/Провайдер целых чисел]]
[[uk:Налаштована особливість/int provider]]
[[zh:编码格式/Worldgen#整数提供器]]
</noinclude>