{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| image = Corrupted Peelgrass Block.png
| renewable = Yes
| tool = Shovel
| stackable = Yes (64)
| light = No
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = No
| transparent = No
}}
A '''corrupted peelgrass block''' is a common grass-like [[block]], similar to the [[peelgrass block]], found throughout the [[Potato dimension]] in [[24w14potato]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
A corrupted peelgrass block can be broken using anything, but a [[shovel]] is the fastest. Corrupted peelgrass blocks drop [[terre de pomme]] when mined unless [[Silk Touch]] is used.
{{Breaking row|horizontal=1|Corrupted Peelgrass Block|shovel|hidecopper=1}}

=== Natural generation ===
Corrupted peelgrass blocks naturally generate throughout the surface of the Potato dimension as the ground of [[corruption]] and [[wasteland]] biomes.

=== Post-generation ===
Corrupted peelgrass can spread to nearby [[terre de pomme]] blocks and normal [[peelgrass block]]s, just like grass spreads to dirt (although normal peelgrass can't spread to corrupted peelgrass). Additionally, {{control|using}} [[corrupted potato peels]] on terre de pomme turns it to corrupted peelgrass.

== Usage ==
=== Farming ===
{{control|Using}} a [[hoe]] on a corrupted peelgrass block turns it into [[poison farmland]]. Potatoes can grow on corrupted peelgrass blocks without the need of tilling them.

=== Paths ===
{{Control|Using}} a [[shovel]] on a corrupted peelgrass block turns it into a [[poison path]].

=== Peeling ===
{{Control|Using}} a [[potato peeler]] on a corrupted peelgrass block turns it into terre de pomme, and drops [[corrupted potato peels]].

=== Sheep ===
When a [[sheep]] eats a corrupted peelgrass block, the block turns into terre de pomme, and a sheared sheep regrows its wool. Sheep also receives [[Poison]] for 1 second, but the duration is too short to actually deal any damage to the mob. Baby sheep graze corrupted peelgrass much more often than adults and mature 1 minute faster when grazing.

== Sounds ==
=== Generic ===
{{Sound table/Block/Corrupted peelgrass}}

=== Unique ===
{{SoundTable
| type = java
| {{SoundLine
| sound =Witch idle1.ogg
|sound2=Witch idle2.ogg
|sound3=Witch idle3.ogg
|sound4=Witch idle4.ogg
|sound5=Witch idle5.ogg
|sound6=Witch idle5.ogg
|subtitle=Witch giggles
|source=block
|description=Randomly
|id=entity.witch.ambient
|translationkey=subtitles.entity.witch.ambient
|volume=0.5
|pitch=0.3-0.5<wbr><ref group=sound>Except for the second copy of {{cd|ambient5}}, which is 0.27-0.45</ref>
| distance = 16
}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Natural blocks]]

[[ja:Corrupted Peelgrass Block]]
[[zh:腐败的薯皮草方块]]