{{Set index}}

'''Crops''' are defined as "cultivated plants or agricultural produce, such as grain, vegetables, or fruit, considered as a group" and in ''Minecraft'', may refer to the following food-related items and blocks:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
* {{BlockLink|Farmland}} – a block specifically used for farming crops. Many crops require farmland in order to grow (see {{slink|Farmland|Usage}}). It is created by using a [[hoe]] on [[dirt]] and some of its variants.
* {{BlockLink|Wheat}} – planted wheat crop.
** {{ItemLink|Wheat Seeds}} – harvested from fully-grown wheat planted from wheat seeds. Used to plant the wheat crop.
** {{ItemLink|Wheat}} – harvested from fully-grown wheat planted from wheat seeds.
* {{BlockLink|Beetroots}} – planted beetroot crop.
** {{ItemLink|Beetroot Seeds}} – harvested from beetroots, used to plant the crop.
** {{ItemLink|Beetroot}} – harvested from beetroots.
* {{BlockLink|Carrots}} – planted carrot crop. 
** {{ItemLink|Carrot}} – harvested from carrots.
* {{BlockLink|Potatoes}} – planted potato crop.
** {{ItemLink|Potato}} – harvested from potatoes.
**  {{ItemLink|Poisonous Potato}} – harvested from potatoes.
* {{BlockLink|Melon Stem}} - the crop that grows melons.
** {{ItemLink|Melon Seeds}} – grows into a melon stem.
** {{BlockLink|Melon}} – grows on the side of a melon stem. Melons can only grow on dirt or its variants, but they can be placed on any block.
** {{ItemLink|Melon Slice}} – harvested from fully-grown melons, if mined without Silk Touch.
* {{BlockLink|Pumpkin Stem}} - the crop that grows pumpkins.
** {{ItemLink|Pumpkin Seeds}} – grows into a pumpkin stem.
** {{BlockLink|Pumpkin}} – grows on the side of a pumpkin stem. Pumpkins can only grow on dirt or its variants, but they can be placed on any block.
** {{BlockLink|Carved Pumpkin}} – a carved out version of a pumpkin.
* {{BlockLink|Torchflower Crop}} – planted crop form of a torchflower. Looks the same as the flower form when fully grown.
** {{ItemLink|Torchflower Seeds}} – a seed used to plant a torchflower crop, dug up by the [[sniffer]].
** {{BlockLink|Torchflower}} – a flower form of the torchflower, harvested from a torchflower crop.
* {{BlockLink|Pitcher Crop|id=Pitcher Crop|link=Pitcher Pod#Pitcher Crop}} – planted crop form of a pitcher plant. Looks different from the pitcher plant, since the crop has a bead at its base and the plant does not.
** {{ItemLink|Pitcher Pod}} – a seed used to plant a pitcher crop, dug up by the [[sniffer]].
** {{BlockLink|Pitcher Plant}} – a flower form of the pitcher plant, harvested from a pitcher crop.
* {{BlockLink|Bamboo Shoot}} – bamboo sapling, grows into a bamboo stalk.
** {{BlockLink|Bamboo Stalk|link=Bamboo}} – a plant that extends upward as it grows.
** {{ItemLink|Bamboo}} – harvested from a bamboo shoot or stalk, used to plant a bamboo sapling.
* {{BlockLink|Cocoa}} – cocoa plant.
** {{ItemLink|Cocoa Beans}} – harvested from cocoa plants, used to plant more cocoa plants. It can be planted on [[jungle logs]] and [[jungle wood]].
* {{ItemLink|Sugar Cane}} – harvested from itself. It can be planted on dirt or sand, if the block is adjacent to water, and it grows by extending upward.
* {{BlockLink|Sweet Berry Bush}} – the crop that grows sweet berries.
** {{ItemLink|Sweet Berries}} – harvested from a sweet berry bush.
* {{BlockLink|Cactus}} – harvested from itself. Can only be planted on [[sand]], and cannot have another block horizontally adjacent to it, and it grows by extending upward.
* {{BlockLink|Mushrooms}} – harvested from themselves. As long they are planted in dark areas or on podzol or mycelium, they can be grown into a giant mushroom by {{control|using}} [[bone meal]]. They naturally spread under the same conditions.
* {{ItemLink|Kelp}} – harvested from itself. It can be planted anywhere underwater.
* {{BlockLink|Sea Pickle}} – harvested from itself. Should be planted on any alive coral block underwater. If all conditions are met can also spread over other coral blocks when planted.
* {{ItemLink|Glow Berries}} – harvested from cave vines.
* {{BlockLink|Nether Wart}} – harvested from itself. It can only be planted on [[soul sand]], not on [[soul soil]]. It is primarily used for [[brewing]].
* {{BlockLink|Nether Fungi}}:
** These are mushrooms that grow in the [[Nether]]. They can be planted on [[nylium]] and many other blocks (see {{slink|Nether Fungus|Placement}}).
** {{BlockLink|Crimson Fungus}} – found in [[crimson forest]]s. If bone meal is used on it, it grows into a [[huge crimson fungus]].
** {{BlockLink|Warped Fungus}} – found in [[warped forest]]s. If bone meal is used on it, it grows into a [[huge warped fungus]].
* {{BlockLink|Chorus Flower}} – harvested from itself. Grows into a large plant, growing more of itself, by extending upward and outward (see {{slink|Chorus Flower|Placement and growth}}). Drops itself when broken. Breaks when hit with an [[arrow]].
** {{BlockLink|Chorus Plant}} – planted chorus. Grows from a chorus flower.
** {{ItemLink|Chorus Fruit}} – harvested from chorus plants.

==Trivia==
* Many crops produce breaking sounds that are derived from other blocks' breaking sounds. For example: [[Wheat]], [[carrots]] and [[potatoes]] have breaking sounds that are just a high-pitched variant of the [[dirt]] breaking sound, [[pumpkin]] and [[melon]] stems use the [[stone]] breaking sound, and in [[Bedrock Edition]] [[beetroot]] uses the [[wood]] breaking sound.
* Planting crops in alternating rows does not reduce their growth rate (crops placed diagonally from the same type will have their grow rate halved).

[[es:Cultivos]]
[[ja:作物]]
[[ko:작물]]
[[pt:Plantios]]
[[ru:Ростки]]
[[th:พืชทางเกษตร (แก้ความกำกวม)]]
[[zh:农作物]]