<div class="treeview"><onlyinclude>
** '''Specifying a constant height:'''
** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
** '''Either specifying a constant height directly as above, or specifying the types and additional fields as below:'''
** {{nbt|string|type}}: The type of the height provider. One of <code>constant</code> (specify a constant height), <code>uniform</code> (random value in a uniform distribution), <code>biased_to_bottom</code> (random value, biased towards the bottom), <code >very_biased_to_bottom</code> (random value {{needs testing}}), <code>trapezoid</code> (random value, isosceles trapezoidal distribution), and <code>weighted_list</code> (random value from a weighted list).
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>constant</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|compound|value}}: The vertical anchor to use as constant height.
*** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>uniform</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|compound|min_inclusive}}: The vertical anchor to use as minimum height.
*** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
** {{nbt|compound|max_inclusive}}: The vertical anchor to use as maximum height.
*** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>biased_to_bottom</code> or <code>very_biased_to_bottom</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|compound|min_inclusive}}: The vertical anchor to use as minimum height.
*** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
** {{nbt|compound|max_inclusive}}: The vertical anchor to use as maximum height.
*** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
** {{nbt|int|inner}}: (optional, defaults to 1) The inner value. Must be at least 1.
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>trapezoid</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|compound|min_inclusive}}: The vertical anchor to use as minimum height.
*** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
** {{nbt|compound|max_inclusive}}: The vertical anchor to use as maximum height.
*** {{nbt inherit/vertical_anchor}}
** {{nbt|int|plateau}}: (optional, defaults to 0) The length of the range in the middle of the trapezoid distribution that has a uniform distribution.
**; If <code>type</code> is <code>weighted_list</code>, additional fields are as follows<nowiki>:</nowiki>
** {{nbt|list|distribution}}: (Cannot be empty) A random weighted pool of height providers.
*** {{nbt|compound}} One entry in the random pool.
**** {{nbt|int|data}}: A height provider.
***** {{nbt inherit/height_provider}}
**** {{nbt|int|weight}}: The weight of this entry.
</onlyinclude></div>

[[fr:Génération du monde personnalisée/Fournisseur de hauteur]]
[[ja:ワールド生成のカスタマイズ/height provider]]
[[pt:Geração de mundo personalizado/provedor de altura]]
[[zh:自定义世界生成/height provider]]