{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = V
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Mace|link=Mace}}
| weight = 5
| incompat =
* [[Smite]]
* [[Bane of Arthropods]]
* [[Breach]]
* [[Sharpness]]<ref group=note name=creativeincompatible>This incompatibility cannot be encountered in Survival, as no weapon types have access to both Density and Sharpness.</ref>
* [[Impaling]]<ref group=note name=creativeincompatible2>This incompatibility cannot be encountered in Survival, as no weapon types have access to both Density and Impaling.</ref>
}}
'''Density''' is a [[mace]] enchantment that increases the damage of smash attacks.

== Obtaining ==
Density can be obtained on maces through an [[enchanting table]], as an enchanted book by [[trading]] with a librarian of any level{{until|Villager Trade Rebalance}}, from [[fishing]], or from [[ominous vault]]s, as well as any other structures that generate enchanted books.

== Usage ==
Density increases smash attack damage by {{Hp|0.5}} per block fallen per level of enchantment.

=== Damage per hit ===
These tables detail how much damage is added per block fallen based on the level of enchantment used.

{| class="wikitable"
|+Density extra damage per block fallen
!I
!II
!III
!IV
!V
|-
|{{hp|0.5}}
|{{hp|1}}
|{{hp|1.5}}
|{{hp|2}}
|{{hp|2.5}}
|}

==Incompatibilities==
Density is incompatible with [[Breach]], [[Smite]], and [[Bane of Arthropods]]. It is also incompatible with [[Sharpness]] and [[Impaling]], however in Survival these incompatibilities cannot be encountered, as no weapon types have access to both Density and Sharpness/Impaling. If [[command]]s are used to have two or more of these enchantments on the same item, their effects stack.{{only|java}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{JE}}
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=density
|displayname=Density
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{BE}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Density
|nameid=density
|id=39
|translationkey=enchantment.heavy_weapon.density
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|exp=Update 1.21|dev=24w13a|Added the Density enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w18a|Density is now available without using the "Update 1.21" experimental data pack.
|Density damage per fallen block has been decreased from {{Hp|1}} to {{Hp|0.5}}.
|Density is now incompatible with [[Smite]] and [[Bane of Arthropods]].}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=24w19a|Density is now incompatible with [[Breach]].}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.0|exp=Update 1.21|dev=Preview 1.21.0.21|Added the Density enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.0|dev=Preview 1.21.0.22|Density is now available without using the "Update 1.21" experimental toggle.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=Preview 1.21.0.24|Density damage per fallen block has been decreased from {{Hp|1}} to {{Hp|0.5}}.
|Density is now incompatible with [[Breach]], [[Smite]], and [[Bane of Arthropods]].}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list|Density|-factor|-function|-limit}}

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|melee}}

[[de:Dichte]]
[[es:Densidad]]
[[fr:Densité]]
[[ja:重撃]]
[[pt:Densidade]]
[[th:หนาแน่น]]
[[uk:Щільність]]
[[zh:致密]]