{{Infobox character
| status = Alive
| gender = Male
| species = {{EntityLink|Villager}}
| familial = {{CharacterLink|Dr. Trayaurus}} <small>(twin brother)</small>
| enemies = {{SkinLink|DanTDM}}
| first_appearance = [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tPEPO0HItPU MUTANT BUGS! (New Mobs and BOSSES!)]
}}

'''Denton''' is the mischievous twin brother of [[Dr. Trayaurus]], frequently serving as the main antagonist of videos created by [[Daniel Middleton]].

== Appearance ==
Within the [[DanTDM]] series, Denton has had many different appearances. Originally, he appeared identical to his brother, being a librarian villager with a distinctive white robe. To distinguish the two, he was later given red eyes.<ref name=":0">{{YouTube link|W13Foz6U89A|Welcome To The Lab!|Dan & Tray|August 31, 2024}}</ref> During his appearance in [[GREAT LONDON ROBBERY!!]], he was depicted wearing a ski mask, black gloves, and a striped outfit reminiscent of a prisoner uniform, but with visible elbow pads.

== Personality ==
Denton is presumed to be very intelligent, managing to get away with many different schemes with unknown resources. His primary motivation appears to be vengeance, swearing he will "destroy" his brother and Dan, who he harbored a grudge against for firing him.<ref>{{YouTube link|tPEPO0HItPU|Minecraft {{!}} MUTANT BUGS! (New Mobs and BOSSES!) {{!}} Mod Showcase [1.5.2<nowiki>]</nowiki>|DanTDM|June 24, 2013}}</ref>

== Biography ==
Over an unknown spread of time, Denton managed to rob the {{Wikipedia|Elizabeth II|Queen}} of {{w|England}}, stealing the jewels of her crown. Although he managed to pull off the heist, he made quite the scene in the process, with many hearing the commotion and the manager of the {{Wikipedia|London Eye}} catching him in the act. He fled into a secret lair within {{Wikipedia|Big Ben}}, entering through a hole in the wall. However, his plan was foiled by DanTDM and Trayaurus, who managed to infiltrate the structure with a grappling hook. 

After a brief scuffle, Dan accidentally knocks Denton off a ledge. The pair scrambled to retrieve him at the bottom, but discovered he fled, leaving behind the jewels and a note promising he'll get revenge.

== References ==
<references />

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox community}}{{Navbox event|Participants}}
[[Category:Male]]
[[Category:Villains]]
[[Category:Villager characters]]
[[Category:Guest characters]]
[[Category:MINECON]]