{{about|the enchantment|the mob|Strider}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| versionAdded = {{Verlink|14w25a}}
| dateAdded = June 18, 2014
| maxlevel = III
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Boots|link=Boots}}
| weight = 2
| id = depth_strider
| incompat = [[Frost Walker]]
}}
'''Depth Strider''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[boots]] that lessens the movement speed reduction that occurs when in water.

== Obtaining ==
Depth Strider can be obtained from [[enchanting table]]s, drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], librarian [[villager]]s, and in the following structure loot chests: [[desert pyramid]]s, [[stronghold]]s, [[ocean ruins]], [[ancient cities]], [[woodland mansion]]s, [[pillager outpost]]s, [[mineshaft]]s, [[dungeon]]s, [[jungle pyramid]]s, and from vaults in [[trial chambers]].

== Usage ==
Each level of Depth Strider increases [[water movement efficiency]] by ⅓, including reducing the speed at which flowing water pushes the player when standing still. An [[armor stand]] carrying armor enchanted with Depth Strider also moves slower when being pushed by water.<ref>{{bug|MC-268690}}</ref>

Level 3 lets the player [[swim]] as fast as [[walking]] on land. Any higher level has no effect on speed. Also at level 3, a Speed potion affects the player's swimming the same as walking.

{{Anchor|dolphins-grace}}If the player has the [[Dolphin's Grace]] effect, bonuses from both are combined and the player can move at a high speed through water.{{only|java}}<ref>{{bug|MC-129576||Dolphin's grace combined with depth strider makes you swim extremely fast}}</ref>

Depth Strider can normally be applied only to [[boots]]. Using [[commands]], the enchantment still works when applied to other types of armor (such as a helmet). However, it has no effect unless the enchanted item is equipped in the feet slot.

Depth Strider only affects horizontal movement speed in water. Vertical movement speed is not affected.<ref>{{bug|MC-66140}} resolved as "Works As Intended"</ref>

== Incompatibilities ==
Depth Strider and [[Frost Walker]] are mutually exclusive. However, if combined using [[commands]], both enchantments function normally.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{el|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=depth_strider
|displayname=Depth Strider
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{el|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=depth_strider
|displayname=Depth Strider
|id=7
|translationkey=enchantment.waterWalker
|foot=1}}

== Videos ==
{{yt|F4Ym7qy2KgA|align=inline}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8|dev=14w25a|Added the Depth Strider enchantment which can be added to [[boots]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9|dev=15w42a|Depth Strider is mutually exclusive with new enchantment [[Frost Walker]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=pre8|[[Sprinting]] in shallow water is no longer possible.<ref>{{bug|MC-133414}}</ref>}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w08a|Depth Strider enchantment is now functional for horses when added to horse armor in creative mode.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w05a|Depth Strider enchantment is no longer functional for horses when added to horse armor in creative mode.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w18a|The [[water movement efficiency]] increase from Depth Strider is now displayed as a tooltip.|The Depth Strider enchantment is now only functional in the feet slot.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added the Depth Strider enchantment.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU31|xbone=CU19|ps3=1.22|psvita=1.22|ps4=1.22|wiiu=Patch 3|switch=1.0.1|Added the Depth Strider enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU43|xbone=CU33|ps3=1.36|psvita=1.36|ps4=1.36|wiiu=Patch 13|switch=1.0.1|Depth Strider is mutually exclusive with new enchantment [[Frost Walker]].}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Depth Strider.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}

[[Category:Transport]]

[[de:Wasserläufer]]
[[es:Agilidad acuática]]
[[fr:Agilité aquatique]]
[[ja:水中歩行]]
[[pt:Passos Profundos]]
[[th:คล่องแคล่วใต้น้ำ]]
[[zh:深海探索者]]