{{TOC|right}}

A dialog [[Tag (Java Edition)|tag]] is a group of [[dialog]]s.

== List of tags ==
=== pause_screen_additions ===
Dialogs in this tag replaces the "Report Bugs" button or the "[[Pause_menu#Server_links|Server Links]]" button on the pause screen.

The behavior are the following:
* If this tag is not specified or is empty but the server has sent '<samp>server_links</samp>' packet, tag will be handled as if it contained {{cd|minecraft:server_links}} dialog.
* If this tag is still empty, the button is not visible ("Send Feedback" and "Report Bugs" buttons are visible instead).
* If this tag has a single element, the button will lead directly to the single dialog.
* If this tag has multiple elements, the button will lead to {{cd|minecraft:custom_options}} which (by default) lets the player select one of the tag elements.

{{tag_list|pause_screen_additions|type=dialog}}

=== quick_actions ===
Dialogs to open when pressing {{control|quick actions}}.

The behavior are the following:
* If this tag is empty, pressing the keybind does nothing.
* If this tag has a single element, pressing the keybind opens the contained dialog.
* If this tag has multiple elements, pressing the keybind opens the {{cd|minecraft:quick_actions}} dialog which (by default) lets the player select one of the tag elements.

{{tag_list|quick_actions|type=dialog}}

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.6|dev=25w20a|Added dialog tags.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=Pre-Release 1|Added {{cd|quick_actions}} tag.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|datapack}}

[[fr:Tag de dialogue (Édition Java)]]
[[pt:Marcação de diálogo (Edição Java)]]
[[uk:Теґ діалогів (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版标签/对话框]]