{{Disambiguation}}

'''Dirt''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
=== Overworld ===
* {{BlockLink|Dirt}}, a block that generates abundantly in the [[Overworld]].
* {{BlockLink|Grass Block}}, dirt with grass on top of it that spreads to other dirt.
* {{BlockLink|Mycelium}}, a variant only found in [[mushroom fields]] that can spread to other dirt and grow mushrooms.
* {{BlockLink|Coarse Dirt}}, a variant that grass and mycelium cannot spread to.
* {{BlockLink|Podzol}}, a variant that does not spread and can grow [[mushroom]]s.
* {{BlockLink|Dirt Path}}, a variant created by using a [[shovel]] on any dirt block.
* {{BlockLink|Farmland}}, a variant created by using a [[hoe]] on most dirt blocks, which can grow [[Technical blocks/Crops|crops]].
* {{BlockLink|Rooted Dirt}}, a variant that generates below [[azalea tree]]s, which can grow [[hanging roots]].
* {{BlockLink|Mud}}, found in [[mangrove swamp]]s and can be created by using a [[water bottle]] on dirt.

=== The Nether ===
* {{BlockLink|Netherrack}}, "Dirt" in the [[Nether]].
* {{BlockLink|Nylium}}, "Grass Block" in the Nether.
* {{BlockLink|Soul Soil}}, found abundantly in [[soul sand valley]].

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' exclusive ===
*{{BlockLink|Client Request Placeholder Block}}, which's inventory texture is dirt with a question mark.
*{{BlockLink|id=Reserved6|Unknown}}
*{{BlockLink|info_update}}
**{{BlockLink|info_update2}}
*{{BlockLink|Reserved6}}

=== Removed ===
* {{BlockLink|Dirt Slab}}, a slab removed due to a bug.

== Minecraft 4k ==
* {{BlockLink|id=dirt2-4k|Minecraft 4k/Dirt|Dirt}}

== See also ==
* [[Grass]]
* [[Mud (disambiguation)]]

[[de:Erde (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[es:Tierra (desambiguación)]]
[[ja:土 (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[ko:흙 (동음이의)]]
[[lzh:土（辨異）]]
[[pl:Ziemia (ujednoznacznienie)]]
[[pt:Terra (desambiguação)]]
[[uk:Ґрунт (значення)]]
[[zh:土]]