{{el|je}}:
{{bst|facing|north|east,north,south,west|The direction the door's "inside" is facing.<br>The direction the player faces while placing the door.<br>For example, a door facing east occupies the west part of its block when closed.}}
{{bst|half|lower|lower,upper|Identifies which part of the door the block is.}}
{{bst|hinge|left|left,right|Identifies the side the hinge is on (when facing the same direction as the door's inside).}}
{{bst|open|false|false,true|True if the door is currently open.}}
{{bst|powered|false|false,true|True if the door is currently powered by redstone.|foot=1}}

{{el|be}}:<br>
Lower Door Block:
{{bst|showaux=1|bits=0x1,0x2|direction|0|0,1,2,3|The direction the door's "inside" is facing.<br>The direction the player faces while placing the door.<br>For example, a door facing east occupies the west part of its block when closed.
*0: Facing east
*1: Facing south
*2: Facing west
*3: Facing north}}
{{bst|bits=—<sup>{{sic}}</sup>|door_hinge_bit|false|false,true|Identifies the side the hinge is on (when facing the same direction as the door's inside). false if hinge is on the left (the default), true if on the right.<br>Lower door block has the same aux value when it is opened and closed.|0,0<sup>{{sic}}</sup>}}
{{bst|bits=0x4|open_bit|false|false,true|True if the door is currently open.|0,1}}
{{bst|bits=0x8|upper_block_bit|false|false,true|Always false for the lower part of a door.|0,1|foot=1}}

Upper Door Block:
{{bst|showaux=1|bits=—<sup>{{sic}}</sup>|direction|0|0,1,2,3|The direction the door's "inside" is facing.<br>The direction the player faces while placing the door.<br>For example, a door facing east occupies the west part of its block when closed.
*0: Facing east
*1: Facing south
*2: Facing west
*3: Facing north
Upper door block has the same aux value no matter what it faces.|0,0,0,0<sup>{{sic}}</sup>}}
{{bst|bits=—<sup>{{sic}}</sup>|door_hinge_bit|false|false,true|Identifies the side the hinge is on (when facing the same direction as the door's inside). false if hinge is on the left (the default), true if on the right.<br>Upper door block doesn't support aux value when its hinge is on the '''right'''.|0,Unsupported}}
{{bst|bits=—<sup>{{sic}}</sup>|open_bit|false|false,true|True if the door is currently open.<br>Lower door block has the same aux value when it is opened and closed.|0,0<sup>{{sic}}</sup>}}
{{bst|bits=0x8|upper_block_bit|false|false,true|Always true for the upper part of a door.|0,1|foot=1}}<noinclude>
[[fr:Porte/BS]]
[[ja:ドア/BS]]
[[pt:Porta/BS]]
[[ru:Дверь/СБ]]
[[th:ประตู/BS]]
</noinclude>