#REDIRECT [[GREAT LONDON ROBBERY!!]]
{{Scope|the [https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Dr_Trayaurus DanTDM Fandom wiki]|3='}}
{{More images|Screenshots from his appearance at Minecon}}{{Character
| image = Librarian.png
| gender = Male
| species = {{EntityLink|Villager}}
| residence = Laboratory
| aliases = * Tray
| status = 
| affiliations = 
| occupation = Scientist
| familial = *{{CharacterLink|Denton}}<small> (twin brother)</small>
* [https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Ms._Trayaurus Mrs. Trayaurus]<small>(mother)</small>
| allies = * [https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Craig_The_Mailman Craig]<small> (supplier)</small>
* {{SkinLink|DanTDM}} <small>(best friend)</small>
* {{EntitySprite|Skeleton Wolf}} [https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Grim Grim] <small>(best friend's pet)</small>
* [https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Melbot Melbot] <small>(coworker)</small>
| actor = [[Daniel Rosenfeld]] <small>(indirect)</small>
| first_appearance = * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vb0QJVsnaKc Minecraft - CARBONIFEROUS! (NEW Prehistoric Dimension!) - Mod Showcase -1.5.2-] <small>(DanTDM)</small><ref>https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Dr_Trayaurus#First_Appearance</ref>
| more_headers = true
}}

'''Dr. Trayaurus''' is a [[villager]] character created by [[DanTDM]], appearing in reviews of [[mods]] and the [https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Custom_Mod_Adventure ''Custom Mod Adventures''] series. Due to his popularity within the fandom, he would go on to appear in several{{Verify}} collaborations with [[Mojang Studios]], such as the episode of [[GREAT LONDON ROBBERY!!]], which was in a panel at [[MINECON 2015]].

== Appearance ==
Trayaurus is a villager, originally a [[librarian]] with a distinctive white coat. In the time since his introduction, this design for villagers has been phased out, however Trayaurus continues to use it, albeit with an updated texture.<ref name=":0">{{YouTube link|W13Foz6U89A|Welcome To The Lab!|Dan & Tray|August 31, 2024}}</ref><ref name=":1">{{YouTube link|7fLgOJDZomA|This Minecraft Villager Has 10 BILLION Views!|DanTDM|July 15, 2022}}</ref> He was born with blonde hair, but chooses to shave it.<ref>{{YouTube link|NYhY5z4Vj_c|Minecraft {{!}} 5 SECRETS ABOUT DR TRAYAURUS!!|DanTDM|June 20, 2015|t=152}}</ref> According to Dan, he also has "tiny legs" which make him slower, even though they're the same size as normal villagers.

== Personality ==
Being a doctor, Trayaurus is remarkably intelligent, capable of inventing great machines and accomplishing impressive feats. These include taming the [[Ender Dragon]],<ref>{{YouTube link|T_vGAPvjOc8|HOW I MET DR TRAYAURUS {{!}} Minecraft|DanTDM|June 21, 2014|t=314}}</ref> opening portals to uncharted [[dimension]]s,<ref>{{YouTube link|TtHxGvsfG64|Minecraft {{!}} THE ULTIMATE CANDY RECIPE!! {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|April 23, 2015}}</ref><ref>{{YouTube link|SYAMld6JNEQ|Minecraft {{!}} DIAMOND DIMENSION ROBBERY!! {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|April 12, 2015}}</ref> and creating a rocket ship,<ref>{{YouTube link|_cu_x8YLWBY|Minecraft {{!}} THE SPACE MISSION {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|March 21, 2015}}</ref> among others. However, he is not completely invincible, being only one of many geniuses in the land and susceptible to making mistakes in experiments.<ref>{{YouTube link|V2L6NkAjOy5fTgTt|Minecraft {{!}} THEDIAMONDMINECART IMPOSTERS!! {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|February 19, 2015}}</ref> Furthermore, he is not particularly wise, often prone to rash decisions.<ref>{{YouTube link|bMH3HzSRIYY|Minecraft {{!}} TRAYAURUS VISITS JURASSIC WORLD!! {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|June 11, 2015|t=740}}</ref><ref>{{Ytl|L1a2Y7FjLZY|Minecraft {{!}} TRAYAURUS GOES TO PRISON {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|January 24, 2015}}</ref>

In spite of his incompetence and criminal record, he remains a well respected, positive figure. In some cases, he and Dan were sought out by the government to help resolve conflicts.<ref>{{YouTube link|xHdD0xuJtOU|Minecraft {{!}} POLICE STATION MISSION {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|February 26, 2015}}</ref><ref>{{YouTube link|EWpeudkphLg|Minecraft {{!}} THE FIREFIGHTER MISSION!! {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|March 12, 2015}}</ref> He is also shown to be very kind, maintaining a positive relationship with his mother and allowing her to move-in under his laboratory.<ref>{{YouTube link|dl627LEDqME|Minecraft {{!}} WIZARD TRAINING SCHOOL!! {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|April 16, 2015}}</ref><ref>{{YouTube link|DRIRAmA_UMY|Minecraft {{!}} TRAYAURUS' MOM MOVES IN!! {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|April 18, 2015}}</ref> The same cannot be said for his brother, [[Denton]], who after being fired from his position has vowed to "destroy" Trayaurus.<ref name=":0" /><ref>{{YouTube link|tPEPO0HItPU|Minecraft {{!}} MUTANT BUGS! (New Mobs and BOSSES!) {{!}} Mod Showcase [1.5.2]|DanTDM|June 24, 2013}}</ref><ref>{{YouTube link|KBfqAcJDjYU|Minecraft {{!}} SECRET AGENTS! (Exploding Pens, Amazing Gadgets & More!) {{!}} Mod Showcase|DanTDM|November 16, 2013|t=614}}</ref>

== Powers and abilities ==
During [[MINECON 2015|''MINECON 2015'']], it's stated that Trayaurus has a "special teleporting power," which he utilizes to keep up with Dan when running or climbing. How he achieved this power is never addressed. 

== Biography ==
While lounging with Dan in their lab, the two caught wind of the {{Wikipedia|Elizabeth II|Queen}} of {{w|England}}'s crown being stolen. Agreeing to investigate, Trayaurus suggested that they travel to {{w|London}} using a teleporter he was working on, having already set it to take them there. They arrive beside the {{Wikipedia|London Eye}}, Dan getting directions from a bus driver to meet up with the police.  Trayaurus was under the impression they were using the bus, blocking Dan before they just walked down the street. Upon arriving at the station, Dan managed to negotiate a collaboration with the cops, the two being assigned a smaller crime to test their credibility.

While Dan went to investigate the appearance of a UFO, Trayaurus stayed behind, staring off at the {{Wikipedia|River Thames}}. Dan returned having found the [[sign]] for a bus, and the two returned to the police chief, who forwarded them to an advisor. Their next stop was a {{Wikipedia|tea room}} to interview a witness, who in turn directed the duo to the London Eye, which was in need of repairs. After helping Dan construct a pipe, the owner of the London Eye agreed to share her story, revealing suspicious deformities appearing on {{Wikipedia|Big Ben}}.

In order to reach the site on Big Ben, Dan went and acquired a grappling hook to scale the tower. Trayaurus instead followed along using his powers of teleportation, warping into one of the maintenance shafts behind Dan. While trying to keep up, he ended up becoming trapped inside of a wall, which enabled him to discover the perpetrator of the robbery standing nearby. Without any weapons, Dan took him on himself, while Trayaurus fled to the bottom. Having now reacquired the jewels, they realize the culprit was Denton, who has sworn to get his revenge once again. However, Trayaurus found himself stuck inside of a [[door]].

== Trivia ==

* Although unofficial to the ''Minecraft'' franchise, Trayaurus was the main protagonist of a novel, ''{{Wikipedia|Trayaurus and the Enchanted Crystal}}''.
* Due to his extended prominence and popularity as a fan favorite, videos featuring Trayaurus accumulated 10,000,000,000 views on YouTube by 2022.<ref name=":1" />
* During [[GREAT LONDON ROBBERY!!|''GREAT LONDON ROBBERY!!'']], an audience member suggested that Trayaurus could have been responsible for stealing the jewels. Dan simply remarked he "could be."

== References ==
<references />

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox community}}{{Navbox event|Participants}}
[[Category:Guest characters]]
[[Category:Villager characters]]
[[Category:Male]]
[[Category:MINECON]]