{{Wip}}{{Character
| gender = Female
| species = Human
| affiliations = [[Cielo Burrito]] <small>(hostess)</small>
| actor = [[James Fouhey]] <small>(audiobook)</small>
| first_appearance = ''[[Minecraft: The Tournament]]''
| familial = * [[Granny]] <small>(grandmother)</small>
* [[Jett Warner]] <small>(younger brother)</small>
* [[Mr. Warner]] <small>(father)</small>
* [[Piper Warner]] <small>(mother)</small>
}}'''Adriana "Dri" Warner''' is the older sister of [[Jett Warner]], and a major character within [[Minecraft: The Tournament|''Minecraft: The Tournament'']].

== Appearance ==
Described as tall and lean, with dark skin, blue glasses, and box braids long enough to reach her midriff. While attending dance class, she wears black tights and flip flops, with her hair tied up into a bun.

== Personality ==
Being Jett's older sister, she can be both incredibly wise and incredibly embarrassing to him. He considers her to be a very skilled gamer and looks to her for advice. Prior to the story she began working overtime at her job. However, she is not always necessarily responsible, often "doing what her heart says is best and apologizing for it later."

== Powers and abilities ==
{{Expand section}}
Dri is an aspiring dancer, and an avid player of ''[[Minecraft]]''.

== Biography ==
{{Expand section}}While leaving one of her dance classes with a group of friends, Dri is surprised to find her brother waiting for him. Initially she guesses he finally spoke to Imani Rivers, but soon finds out he got accepted into a [[Southwest Regional Tech Fair's Minecraft Tournament|tournament]]. She's immediately encouraging and accepting of this development, telling Jett to inform their parents. They agree to tell on Wednesday, while their mother is working abroad in New York, calling her over {{Wikipedia|FaceTime}}. After getting unanimous support, she and her brother elect to start practicing, beginning by fighting the [[ender dragon]] as a skill check.

As they leave to fight, they locate a [[stronghold]] and emerge in [[the End]], Dri placing down [[obsidian]]. Jett places down several [[beds]] and uses them offensively, unwittingly setting Dri on [[fire]] and causing her to anger an [[enderman]]. This results in her dying, leaving only Jett behind and failing the one-cycle run. However, she then takes him out of the gate to let him know pizza had arrived, only for Jett to push forward with the speedrun. Ultimately he comes out victorious, impressing Dri, as their dad calls for them to get their dinner.

== Relationships ==

=== Jett ===
{{Empty section}}

== Trivia ==

* Dri owns a pair of {{Wikipedia|AirPods}}.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox meta novels|the tournament}}
[[Category:Book characters]]
[[Category:Female]]
[[Category:Players]]
[[Category:Students]]