{{for|the games|Minecraft (franchise)#Games}}
{{distinguish|Version}}
''Minecraft'' has several '''editions''', some of which are discontinued.

== ''Java Edition'' ==
'''''[[Minecraft: Java Edition]]''''' (formerly just '''''Minecraft''''') is the original version of ''Minecraft'', developed by [[Mojang Studios]] for {{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}, {{w|macOS}}, and {{w|Linux}}. [[Notch]] began development on May 10, 2009, publicly releasing Minecraft on May 17, 2009. The [[Java Edition#Full release|full release]] of the game (version [[Java Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]]) was on November 18, 2011, at [[MINECON 2011]]. The latest release is {{v|java}}.

== ''Bedrock Edition'' ==
'''''[[Minecraft: Bedrock Edition]]''''' (only '''''Minecraft''''' on most platforms and in-game) refers to the multi-platform versions of ''Minecraft'' developed by [[Mojang Studios]], [[Xbox Game Studios]], and [[SkyBox Labs]] and based on the [[Bedrock codebase]]. The latest release is {{v|bedrock}}.

=== ''Minecraft Education'' ===
'''{{el|ee}}''' (formerly '''''Minecraft: Education Edition''''') is an educational edition of ''Minecraft'' specifically designed for classroom use. It is developed by [[Mojang Studios]] and {{w|Xbox Game Studios}} and has features that make ''Minecraft'' easy to use in a classroom setting. The latest version is {{v|education}}. It is built on the same codebase as ''Bedrock Edition'' and many of its features can be accessed using a [[world setting]] in ''Bedrock Edition''.

== Legacy Console Edition ==
'''[[Legacy Console Edition]]''' is a discontinued term that refers collectively to several nearly identical editions of ''Minecraft'' developed by [[4J Studios]] for game consoles. It comprises of:
*{{OS|360wm}} ''[[Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition]]'' <small>(Final version: [[TU75]])</small>
*{{OS|xb1wm}} ''[[Minecraft: Xbox One Edition]]'' <small>(Final version: [[CU59]])</small>
*{{OS|ps3}} ''[[Minecraft: PlayStation 3 Edition]]'' <small>(Final version: [[PlayStation 3 Edition 1.84|1.84]])</small>
*{{OS|ps4}} ''[[Minecraft: PlayStation 4 Edition]]'' <small>(Final version: [[PlayStation 4 Edition 1.95|1.95]])</small> 
*{{OS|psv}} ''[[Minecraft: PlayStation Vita Edition]]'' <small>(Final version: [[PlayStation Vita Edition 1.84|1.84]])</small>
*{{OS|wii}} ''[[Minecraft: Wii U Edition]]'' <small>(Final version: [[Patch 43]])</small>
*{{OS|nswm}} ''[[Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition]]'' <small>(Final version: [[Nintendo Switch Edition 1.0.16|1.0.16]])</small>
Legacy Console Edition introduced new features such as a simplified [[crafting]] system, in-game [[Legacy Console Edition Tutorial|tutorials]], leaderboards, built-in [[mini games]] and split-screen [[multiplayer]],<sup><nowiki>[</nowiki>''except {{el|psv|short=1|noitalics=1}}'']</sup> as well as online multiplayer for up to 4{{only|psv|short=1}} or 8<sup><nowiki>[</nowiki>''[[Xbox 360]], [[PS3]], [[Wii U]], & [[Nintendo Switch Edition|Switch]] only'']</sup> or 16{{only|xb1|ps4|short=1}} players, which required the console's paid subscription service.<sup><nowiki>[</nowiki>''except {{el|wii|short=1|noitalics=1}}'']</sup> As with all editions, updates were free of charge.

== ''China Edition'' ==
'''''[[Minecraft: China Edition]]''''' is a localized edition of {{els|je|be}} for mainland China, developed by [[Mojang Studios]] and {{W|NetEase}}. The latest version is {{v|china-win}} for Windows, {{v|china-android}} for Android, and {{v|china-ios}} for iOS, iPadOS, and macOS.

== Other editions ==
=== ''Minecraft 4k'' ===
'''''[[Minecraft 4k]]''''' was an edition of ''Minecraft'' developed for the 2010 {{w|Java 4K Game Programming Contest|Java 4K}} contest, where the entry games were required to be within four {{w|Byte#Multiple-byte units|kibibytes}} (4096 bytes) in size.<ref name="forum"> {{citation|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150809054725/http://www.java-gaming.org/index.php?topic=21638.0|title=Minecraft 4k (very early build)|website=Java-Gaming.org|author=Markus_Persson|date=December 3, 2009}}</ref>

=== ''MinecraftEdu'' ===
'''''[[MinecraftEdu]]''''' is an {{w|Educational video game|educational}} mod for {{JE}}, developed by [http://teachergaming.com TeacherGaming], published by [http://elinemedia.com E-Line Media], and licensed by [[Mojang Studios]].<ref>https://help.mojang.com/customer/en/portal/articles/325947-where-can-i-buy-minecraft-</ref> It was meant as an educational version of ''Minecraft''. The final version was [[MinecraftEdu 1.8.9 Build 3|1.8.9 Build 3]].

=== ''Pi Edition'' ===
'''''[[Minecraft: Pi Edition]]''''' is a edition of ''Minecraft'' developed for the {{w|Raspberry Pi}}. It is based on {{el|pe}} [[Pocket Edition v0.6.1 alpha|Alpha v0.6.1]] but slightly cut down, containing a revised feature set and support for multiple programming languages. ''Pi Edition'' is intended as an educational tool for novice programmers. The final version was v0.1.1 alpha.

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
'''''[[Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition]]''''' is the edition of ''Minecraft'' developed by [[Other Ocean Interactive]] and [[Mojang Studios]] for the {{w|New Nintendo 3DS}}/{{w|Nintendo 2DS|2DS}} systems, but is not compatible with the original {{w|Nintendo 3DS}}/{{w|Nintendo 2DS|2DS}} systems. The final version was [[New Nintendo 3DS Edition 1.9.19|1.9.19]].

=== ''Minecraft Classic'' ===
'''''[[Minecraft Classic (JavaScript remake)|Minecraft Classic]]''''' is a JavaScript remake of [[Classic 0.0.23a_01]], made to celebrate 10 years of ''Minecraft'' and was uploaded to the ''Minecraft'' website (built with the {{W|Babylon.js}} library). This version can be played at [https://classic.minecraft.net classic.minecraft.net] for free.

== Summary ==
===Active===
{|class="wikitable"
|-
!Edition!!Operating system!!Released on!! Latest Version
|-
!scope="row"|''[[Java Edition]]''
|{{OS|win|mac|lin}}||May 17, 2009||{{v|java}}
|-
!rowspan="12" scope="rowgroup"|''[[Bedrock Edition]]''
|{{OS|andwm}}||August 16, 2011||{{v|bedrock-android}}
|-
|{{OS|ios}}||November 17, 2011||{{v|bedrock-ios}}
|-
|{{OS|fire}}||September 13, 2012||{{v|bedrock-fire}}
|-
|{{OS|winwm}}||July 29, 2015||{{v|bedrock-win}}
|-
|{{OS|xb1wm}}||September 20, 2017||{{v|bedrock-xbox}}
|-
|{{OS|nswm}}||June 21, 2018||{{v|bedrock-switch}}
|-
|{{OS|ipad}}||September 24, 2019||{{v|bedrock-ios}}
|-
|{{OS|ps4}} {{w|PlayStation 4}}||December 10, 2019||{{v|bedrock-ps4}}
|-
|{{OS|chromewm}}||June 7, 2023||{{v|bedrock-android}}
|-
|{{OS|ps5}} {{w|PlayStation 5}}||October 22, 2024||{{v|bedrock-ps5}}
|-
|{{OS|ns2}}||June 5, 2025||{{v|bedrock-switch}}
|-
|{{OS|xsx}} {{w|Xbox Series X and Series S|Xbox Series X{{!}}S}}||June 17, 2025||{{v|bedrock-xbox}}
|-
!rowspan="5" scope="rowgroup"|''[[Minecraft Education]]''
|{{OS|win|mac}}||November 1, 2016||{{v|education}}
|-
|{{OS|ios}}||September 6, 2018||{{v|education}}
|-
|{{OS|ipad}}||September 24, 2019||{{v|education}}
|-
|{{OS|chromewm}}||August 7, 2020||{{v|education}}
|-
|{{OS|andwm}}||August 9, 2022||{{v|education}}
|-
!rowspan="5" scope="rowgroup"|''[[China Edition]]''
|{{OS|winwm}}||August 8, 2017||See ''[[China Edition]]''
|-
|{{OS|andwm}}||October 12, 2017||See ''[[China Edition]]''
|-
|{{OS|ios}}||September 15, 2017||See ''[[China Edition]]''
|-
|{{OS|ipad}}||September 24, 2019||See ''[[China Edition]]''
|-
|{{OS|mac}}||June/July 2021||See ''[[China Edition]]''
|-
!scope="row"|''[[Minecraft Classic (JavaScript remake)|Minecraft Classic]]''
|{{w|Web browser|🌐}}||May 7, 2019||N/A
|}

===Discontinued===
{|class="wikitable"
|-
!Edition!!Operating system!!Released on!!Discontinued on!!Last version
|-
!rowspan="3" scope="rowgroup"|''[[Bedrock Edition]]''
|{{OS|gearvr}}||April 27, 2016||September 3, 2020||[[Bedrock Edition 1.16.40|1.16.40]]
|-
|{{OS|tvos}}||December 19, 2016||August 7, 2017||[[Pocket Edition 1.1.5|1.1.5]]
|-
|{{OS|firetv}}||December 19, 2016||April 22, 2021||[[Bedrock Edition 1.16.221|1.16.221]]
|-
!rowspan="7" scope="rowgroup"|''[[Legacy Console Edition]]''
|{{OS|360}} {{el|360}}||May 9, 2012||April 30, 2019||[[Xbox 360 Edition TU75|TU75]]
|-
|{{OS|xb1}} {{el|xb1}}||September 5, 2014||April 9, 2024||[[Xbox One Edition CU59|CU59]]
|-
|{{OS|ps3}} {{el|ps3}}||December 17, 2013||April 15, 2020||[[PlayStation 3 Edition 1.84|1.84]]
|-
|{{OS|ps4}} {{el|ps4}}||September 4, 2014 ||September 9, 2019||[[PlayStation 4 Edition 1.95|1.95]]
|-
|{{OS|psv}} {{el|psv}}||October 14, 2014||April 15, 2020||[[PlayStation Vita Edition 1.84|1.84]]
|-
|{{OS|wii}} {{el|wii}}||December 17, 2015||March 19, 2019||[[Wii U Edition Patch 43|Patch 43]]
|-
|{{OS|ns}} {{el|ns}}||May 11, 2017||June 21, 2018 ||[[Nintendo Switch Edition 1.0.16|1.0.16]]
|-
!scope="row"|{{el|4k}}
|{{OS|java}} {{w|Web browser|🌐}}||December 2, 2009||December 4, 2009||N/A
|-
!scope="row"|{{el|mcedu}}
|{{OS|win|mac|lin}}||November 5, 2011||April 5, 2016||[[MinecraftEdu 1.8.9 Build 3|1.8.9 Build 3]]
|-
!scope="row"|''[[Pi Edition]]''
|{{OS|pi|lin}}<sup><nowiki>[</nowiki>{{w|ARM architecture family|ARM}} only]</sup>
|colspan="2" scope="colgroup"|February 11, 2013
|v0.1.1 alpha
|-
!scope="row"|{{el|ds}}
|{{OS|3ds|3dsxl|2dsxl}}||September 13, 2017||January 15, 2019||[[New Nintendo 3DS Edition 1.9.19|1.9.19]]
|}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==
*[[Minecraft#Edition comparison|''Minecraft'' § Edition comparison]]

== External links ==
* [https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360058534412-Differences-Between-Minecraft-Java-Edition-and-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition Differences Between ''Minecraft: Java Edition'' and ''Minecraft: Bedrock Edition''] – [[Minecraft Help Center]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Minecraft|editions}}

[[Category:Editions| ]]

[[de:Minecraft-Editionen]]
[[es:Edición]]
[[it:Edizione]]
[[ja:エディション]]
[[ko:에디션]]
[[pt:Edição]]
[[uk:Видання]]
[[zh:版本]]