{{Infobox version
|title=v1.12.0
|name=Back to School Update
|vernum=1.12
|edition=Education
|internal='''Windows''': 1.12.0.0
|image=Back to School Update Banner.png
|image2=Education Edition 1.12.0.png
|date='''Windows, macOS, iOS''': August 14, 2019<br>'''iPadOS''': September 24, 2019
|prevparent=1.9
|next=1.12.1
|nextparent=1.14.31
}}

'''1.12.0''', dubbed the '''Back to School Update''', is a major update to {{el|ee}}. It added some [[Village & Pillage]] features from [[Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]] and [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0|1.11.0]] along with classroom experience and performance improvements.<ref name=release>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190830201530/https://minecrafteducation.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360032143231-What-s-New-Back-to-School-Release-Version-1-12-|title=What's New: Back to School Release (Version 1.12)|website=Minecraft: Education Edition Support}}</ref> It released for Windows, macOS, and iOS on August 14, 2019, and for iPadOS on September 24, 2019. 1.12.0 was discontinued on February 1, 2021.<ref>{{cite|url=https://educommunity.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360053235651-Version-1-12-Retirement|title=Version 1.12 Retirement|website=Minecraft Education Edition Support}}</ref><ref>https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/blog/back-to-school-update-now-available-for-all-users</ref>

== Additions ==
{{main|Bedrock Edition 1.10.0|Bedrock Edition 1.11.0}}
{{Additions table
|Composter
|Campfire
|Jigsaw Block
|Lectern
|Loom
|Stonecutter
|Flower Charge Banner Pattern
|Creeper Charge Banner Pattern
|Skull Charge Banner Pattern
|Thing Banner Pattern
|Field Masoned Banner Pattern
|Bordure Indented Banner Pattern
|Ravager Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Wandering Trader Spawn Egg BE
|Sweet Berries
|Shield
|Ominous Banner
}}

This version also adds all features from Bedrock Edition versions [[Bedrock Edition 1.10.0|1.10.0]] and [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.0|1.11.0]] except experimental features.

=== General ===
'''Exporting'''
*Students can now use the export function in the [[Book & Quill]] tool to save work as a PDF.
**Supports assessment, in addition to helping students document and share their work

'''Immersive reader'''
*Is an in-game tool that supports reading and translating in-game text, offering formatting options for students and a Picture Dictionary with ''Minecraft''-specific imagery.

'''Simple Sign On'''
*Users can choose to be automatically logged in based on their credentials, or sign out at any time and sign in as a different user as needed.

== Changes ==

=== General ===
'''Sharing library content'''
*Made it easier to assign or share a link to worlds from within the Learning Management System.

'''Site map'''
*Added more visual site map helps educators and students find Minecraft worlds in the Library or navigate to a course. 

'''[[Multiplayer]]'''
*Students can now invite others to join their worlds using join codes.
**Students must be invited in order to participate in a multiplayer world
*Changed permissions for how players join each other's worlds.
**Other players can be invited to join as a Visitor or given full Member permissions.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Education versions}}

[[de:Education Edition 1.12.0]]
[[es:Education Edition 1.12.0]]
[[ja:Education Edition 1.12.0]]
[[pt:Edição Education 1.12.0]]
[[ru:1.12.0 (Education Edition)]]
[[zh:教育版1.12.0]]