{{Infobox version
|title=v1.9
|vernum=1.9
|edition=Education
|internal='''Windows''': 1.9.0.0<br>1.9.1.0<br>1.9.3.0
|image=Spring Release banner.png
|image2=Education Edition 1.9.1.png
|image3=Education Edition 1.9.3.png
|date=March 21, 2019
|name=Spring Release
|prevparent=1.7
|nextparent=1.12.0
}}

'''1.9.0/1.9.3''' (Windows), '''1.9.1''' (macOS), or '''1.9''' (iPad), dubbed the '''Spring Release''', is a major update to {{el|ee}}, released on March 21, 2019. It added some [[Village & Pillage]] features from [[Bedrock Edition 1.8.0]] and [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0|1.9.0]].<ref name=release>{{cite|url=http://web.archive.org/web/20190710004215/https://minecrafteducation.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360025667011-What-s-new-Spring-release-version-1-9-0-|title=What's new: Spring release (version 1.9)|website=Minecraft: Education Edition Support}}</ref>

== Additions ==
{{Main|Bedrock Edition 1.8.0|Bedrock Edition 1.9.0}}
{{Additions table
|Barrel
|Bell
|Blast Furnace
|Cartography Table
|Smoker
|Fletching Table
|Scaffolding
|Bamboo
|Cornflower
|Lily of the Valley
|Grindstone
|Lantern
|Spruce Sign
|Birch Sign
|Acacia Sign
|Jungle Sign
|Dark Oak Sign
|Smithing Table
|Smooth Stone
|Smooth Sandstone
|Smooth Red Sandstone
|Smooth Quartz Block
|Stone Slab
|Andesite Slab
|Polished Andesite Slab
|Diorite Slab
|Polished Diorite Slab
|Granite Slab
|Polished Granite Slab
|Mossy Stone Brick Slab
|Mossy Cobblestone Slab
|Smooth Sandstone Slab 
|Smooth Red Sandstone Slab
|Smooth Quartz Slab
|Red Nether Brick Slab
|End Stone Brick Slab
|Cut Sandstone Slab
|Cut Red Sandstone Slab
|Stone Stairs
|Andesite Stairs
|Polished Andesite Stairs
|Diorite Stairs
|Polished Diorite Stairs
|Granite Stairs
|Polished Granite Stairs
|Mossy Stone Brick Stairs
|Mossy Cobblestone Stairs
|Smooth Sandstone Stairs
|Smooth Red Sandstone Stairs
|Smooth Quartz Stairs
|Red Nether Brick Stairs
|End Stone Brick Stairs
|Brick Wall
|Andesite Wall
|Diorite Wall
|Granite Wall
|Prismarine Wall
|Stone Brick Wall
|Mossy Stone Brick Wall
|Sandstone Wall
|Red Sandstone Wall
|Nether Brick Wall
|Red Nether Brick Wall
|End Stone Brick Wall
|Crossbow
|White Dye
|Blue Dye
|Black Dye
|Pillager Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Cat Spawn Egg BE
|Panda Spawn Egg BE
|Mask Spawn Egg
|Enchanted Book[&7Quick Charge I]
|Enchanted Book[&7Quick Charge II]
|Enchanted Book[&7Quick Charge III]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing I]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing II]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing III]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing IV]
|Enchanted Book[&7Multishot]
}}
===Blocks===
'''[[Bamboo]] '''
* Can be found while [[fishing]] in jungles and will appear in some [[chest]]s 
* Spawning naturally in bamboo forest.

'''[[Scaffolding]]'''
* A new climbable [[block]] that can be [[crafting|crafted]] using bamboo.
'''[[Flower]]s'''
* Added [[cornflower]].
** Gives [[blue dye]].
** Appears in [[plains]] biomes.
* Added [[lily of the valley]].
** Gives [[white dye]].
** Appears in [[forest]] [[biome]]s.
'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Now come in all different wood types: spruce, birch, acacia, jungle and dark oak.
'''Smooth blocks'''
* Added [[smooth stone]], smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone and smooth quartz block.
'''[[Slab]]s'''
* Added stone, andesite, polished andesite, diorite, polished diorite, granite, polished granite, mossy stone brick, mossy cobblestone, smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone, smooth quartz, red nether brick, and end stone brick slabs.
* Added cut sandstone and cut red sandstone slabs.
'''[[Stairs]]'''
* Added stone, andesite, polished andesite, diorite, polished diorite, granite, polished granite, mossy stone brick, mossy cobblestone, smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone, smooth quartz, red nether brick, and end stone brick stairs.
'''[[Wall]]s'''
* Added brick, andesite, diorite, granite, prismarine, stone brick, mossy stone brick, sandstone, red sandstone, nether brick, red nether brick, and end stone brick walls.

===Items===

'''New [[dye]] items'''
* Added [[white dye]], [[blue dye]], [[brown dye]] and [[black dye]].
* Items previously used as dyes ([[bone meal]], [[lapis lazuli]], [[cocoa beans]] and [[ink sac]]s) can still be used.

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* [[Panda]]
* [[Cat]]

===Mobs===

'''[[Panda]]s '''
* Spawn in [[jungle]]s.
* Eat [[bamboo]] and [[cake]] items.
* Have different personalities – lazy, playful, aggressive or worried.
* Have a rare brown variant.

'''[[Stray cat]]s'''
* Spawn in [[village]]s.
* Can be tamed using [[fish]].
* Bring gifts to the player.
* Have dyeable collars, like wolves.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|particle}} command'''
* Only the following particles are available (prefix {{cd|minecraft:}} is necessary):<ref>{{tweet|HelenAngel|1056075978647064576|If you were wondering about some of the cool stuff you can do with Bedrock’s new particle system...|October 27, 2018}}</ref>
** {{cd|minecraft:mobflame_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_beziercurve}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_bounce}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_catmullromcurve}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_colorcurve}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_combocurve}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_highrestitution}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_linearcurve}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_mule}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_smoke_puff}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_sphere}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_spiral}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_watertest}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_flipbook}}
** {{cd|minecraft:test_vertexrandom}}
** {{cd|minecraft:balloon_gas_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:mobspell_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:basic_crit_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:portal_directional}}
** {{cd|minecraft:bubble_column_down_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:portal_east_west}}
** {{cd|minecraft:portal_north_south}}
** {{cd|minecraft:bubble_column_up_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:crit_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:splash_spell_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:end_chest}}
** {{cd|minecraft:totem_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:evocation_fang_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:water_splash_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:evoker_spell}}
** {{cd|minecraft:water_wake_particle}}
** {{cd|minecraft:magnesium_salts_emitter}}
** {{cd|minecraft:wither_boss_invulnerable}}
** {{cd|minecraft:mob_portal}}

'''{{cmd|reload}}'''
* Reloads all function files from all behavior packs.

* Added {{cd|minecraft:}} prefix for {{cmd|summon}} to separate vanilla entities and add-on entities.
* Added {{cd|function}}.
* Added gamerule {{cd|randomtickspeed}}.

'''{{code|showDeathMessages}}'''
* Allows players to select whether a message appears in chat when a player or tamed mob dies.
* Has new "Immediate Respawn" option.

'''{{cmd|tellraw}}'''
* Enables the use of raw text formatting to be able to send translatable text output to chat using JSON.

'''[[Gamerule]]s'''
*The number of commands run through functions can be limited with a new gamerule (defaults to 10,000) to limit performance issues.
'''[[Function (Bedrock)|Functions]]'''
*Can now be run every tick creating an update loop.
'''Tags'''
*Custom tags can be applied to entities and players to create more flexible selector groupings.
*Added {{cd|has_tag}} filter in components to allow checks to see if an entity has a specified tag.
*Autocomplete can be used for tags.
*{{cmd|kill}} [[command]] now kills creative mode players.

=== General ===
'''[[Pause menu]]'''
* Added a new "feedback" button.
** Shows links to the Minecraft feedback site, the [[bug tracker]], and Mojang support site.
*"How to Play" button is now visible from the in-game settings menu.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Moss stone]]'''
* Has been renamed to Mossy Cobblestone.

'''[[Nether brick fence]]s'''
* Crafting recipe changed to 4 nether brick blocks and 2 nether brick items.
** Previously crafting recipe is now used to make a nether brick [[wall]].

'''[[Smooth sandstone]] and [[smooth red sandstone]]'''
* Have been renamed to cut sandstone and cut red sandstone, respectively.

'''[[Sign]]'''
* Has been renamed to Oak Sign.
** An oak sign now requires oak planks to craft, instead of any wood planks.

'''[[Stone slab]]s'''
* Have been renamed to smooth stone slabs and now require smooth stone to craft, instead of regular stone.
** Previous crafting recipe is now used to make a new stone slab.

'''[[Sandstone]] and [[red sandstone]] stairs and slabs'''
*Cannot be crafted using any type of sandstone or red sandstone but now require regular sandstone or red sandstone to craft it.

'''[[Cauldron]]s'''
* Can now be used to hold [[lava]].
** Will burn entities inside it and emit light.

'''[[Tripwire]]'''
* Is now activated when broken, unless broken with [[shears]].

'''[[Wool]]'''
* Renamed white colored wool to white wool.

'''[[Command block]]s '''
* Now have the default name of "!" instead of "@".

'''[[Packed ice]]'''
* Added crafting recipe.

'''[[Shulker Box]]'''
* Added a recipe for undyed shulker box.

=== Items === 
'''[[Stick]]s '''
* Can now be crafted with bamboo.

'''[[Bow]]s'''
* The bow in the hotbar now shows an arrow when being drawn.

'''[[Dye]]s'''
* "Dandelion yellow", "rose red" and "cactus green" have been renamed to "yellow dye", "red dye" and "green dye", respectively.

'''[[Firework Rocket]]s'''
* Can now be placed in the off-hand slot.

===Mobs===
'''[[Phantom]]s '''
* Now are afraid of [[cat]]s and will not swoop while cats are around.

'''[[Tropical Fish]]'''
* Increased the size of [[tropical fish]].

'''[[Skeleton horse]]s and [[zombie horse]]s'''
* Foals now have a chance of being spawned using a [[spawn egg]].

'''[[Ocelot]]s'''
* Can no longer be tamed.
* The [[player]] can still feed them to gain their trust.
* Ocelots can now be fed pufferfish and tropical fish items.

'''Passive Mobs'''
* Now randomly enter [[Breeding|love mode]].

=== World generation ===
* [[Witch hut]]s now spawn with a black [[cat]] in them.
* [[Bamboo]] can now be found in [[shipwreck]] and [[jungle temple]] [[chest]]s.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Fishing]] '''
* Catches have been changed in the [[jungle]] [[biome]].
** Now only raw cod and raw salmon can be caught as fish in a jungle.
** [[Bamboo]] can now be caught as a junk item from fishing in a jungle.
'''[[Achievements]]'''
* The Lion Tamer achievement's description has now been changed from 'Tame an Ocelot' into 'Gain the trust of an Ocelot' due to [[ocelot]]s no longer being able to turn into cats by feeding them fish. Now to unlock this achievement the player must feed fish to an ocelot until it trusts them, which is indicated by the ocelot emitting heart particles.

===Command format===
'''The following [[commands]] can now be run in game without turning on cheats: '''
* <code>/gamerule showcoordinates</code>
* <code>/gamerule dofiretick</code>
* <code>/gamerule tntexplodes</code>
* <code>/gamerule domobloot</code>
* <code>/gamerule naturalregeneration</code>
* <code>/gamerule dotiledrops</code>
* <code>/gamerule pvp</code>
* Now only players with operator permissions can use game rules.
* The commands to set scoreboards' names are now recognized.

'''Auto-complete'''
*The autocomplete list for [[player]] mentions now work in slash commands.

=== General ===
'''Availability'''
*''Education Edition'' is now available for Windows Desktop.
**Updated and deployed using either SCCM or Intune, and is compatible with Windows 7, Windows 8.1, and all versions of Windows 10.

'''[[Splash screen]] '''
* Now has an animated loading bar.

'''[[Skin packs]]'''
*More skin packs are now shown in the skin picker menu, and each pack can be opened and viewed in its own page.

'''[[World Spawn|Spawning]]'''
*Improvements to how and when spawn positions are moved to safer places.

'''[[Marketplace]]'''
*The player can now send links to Marketplace content using the share button.
*Content can now be sorted by 'Updates available' in the Marketplace inventory.
*Content can now be sorted and filtered by rating in the Marketplace.

'''How to play:'''
* Added a guide for [[scaffolding]].

'''Updates to add-ons:'''
* The [[player]] can now add their own [[mob]]s, [[particle]]s and more without having to replace any vanilla features.

'''Panorama Screen:'''
* Updated Panorama Screen.

'''[[Texture]]s'''
* Health Boost and Absorption icons have now changed to look different.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed crash when agent places water.
* Fixed "Make visible to LAN" toggle functionality
* Fixed installation not working on Windows 10 version 1511 and earlier
* Fixed failed multiplayer connection on Windows 10 version 1607
* Fixed certain languages not displaying properly in-game

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Education versions}}

[[de:Education Edition 1.9]]
[[es:Education Edition 1.9]]
[[ja:Education Edition 1.9]]
[[ko:Education Edition 1.9]]
[[pt:Edição Education 1.9]]
[[ru:1.9 (Education Edition)]]
[[zh:教育版1.9]]