{{Infobox version
| title = v1.14.30
| vernum = 1.14.30
| edition = Education
| image = BuzzyBeesEdu.png
| image2 = Education Edition 1 14 30 Beta.png
| type = Beta
| internal = '''ChromeOS''': 1.14.30.06<br>'''Windows''': 1.14.30.0
| date = '''Windows, macOS, ChromeOS''': June 22, 2020<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20200704152559/https://minecrafteducation.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360044965811-Download-Minecraft-Education-Edition-Chromebook-Beta-version-1-14-</ref><ref>https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mojang.minecraftedu&hl=en</ref>
<br>
'''iOS, iPadOS''': June 26, 2020<ref>https://testflight.apple.com/join/sBDlEXYr</ref>
| parent = 1.14.31
| protocol_manual = 390
| prevparent = 1.12.60
| prev = 
| next = 
| nextparent = 1.14.32
}}<onlyinclude>
'''1.14.30''' is the first and only beta version of [[Education Edition 1.14.31]], which adds compatibility with ChromeOS and introduces features from [[Bedrock Edition 1.13.0]] and [[Bedrock Edition 1.14.0|1.14.0]], including [[Buzzy Bees]] features.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20200704152013/https://minecrafteducation.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360044518852</ref> It released on June 22, 2020 for Windows, macOS, and ChromeOS, and June 26 for iOS and iPadOS.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beehive]]s'''
* Crafted with 6 [[planks]] and 3 honeycombs.
* Function the same as bee nests, but does not need a [[Silk Touch]] enchanted tool to be dropped.

'''[[Bee nest]]s'''
* Spawn naturally in [[flower forest]]s, [[plains]], and [[sunflower plains]] biomes.
* Can house up to 3 bees.
* Fill up with honey.
** Have a max honey level of 5.
* Can be obtained by using a Silk Touch enchanted tool.

'''[[Flowers]]'''
*Added the [[wither rose]] flower.
*Inflicts the [[Wither (status effect)|wither effect]] to any players or mobs standing in it.
*Can be used as an alternative to [[ink sac]]s to make [[black dye]].
*Drops from mobs killed by the wither.
** If <code>/gamerule mobgriefing</code> is set to <code>false</code>, the wither rose is always dropped as an item, instead of planting it.

'''[[Honey block]]s'''
* Crafted with 4 honey bottles.
* Drastically reduce movement speed and jump height.
* Can be climbed down, and will drag anything on them when moved by a piston.
* Do not stick to slime blocks.
* Reduce fall damage by 80%.

'''[[Honeycomb block]]s'''
* Crafted with 4 honeycombs.
* Are purely decorative.

=== Items ===
'''[[Honey bottle]]s'''
* Can be drunk by using it, restoring {{hunger|6}} hunger points.
** Drinking one will also remove the [[poison]] effect.
* Can be used to craft [[sugar]] and [[honey block]]s.
* Obtained by using a bottle on full bee hives/nests.

'''[[Honeycomb]]s'''
* Obtained by using [[shears]] on full bee hives/nests.
* Can be used to craft bee hives and honeycomb blocks.

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* Added bee spawn egg and fox spawn egg.

'''[[Suspicious Stew]]'''
* Can be crafted, milked from brown mooshrooms, found in [[shipwreck]] supply [[chest]]s, or bought from farmer [[villager]]s.
* When consumed, gives a [[status effect]] depending on what [[flower]] it was made from, or a random effect if found in a shipwreck or bought from a farmer villager.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Bee]]s'''
* Have {{health|10}} health.
* Live in groups near hives and nests.
** If a bee does not have a home nest, it will wander around until it finds one.
* Can be bred using any [[flower]].
* Adult and baby bees will pollinate flowers, then go back to nests and hives and make honey.
* Bees can make plants grow faster if they pass above it after pollinating flowers.
* Attack in a swarm if provoked,have a baby or if honey is taken from nests/hives without using a campfire.
** When they attack, they give [[Poison]] to the target and die 50-60 seconds after attacking.
* Are affected by [[Bane of Arthropods]].

'''[[Mooshroom|Brown mooshroom]]'''
* A variant of the mooshroom that spawns when a red mooshroom is hit by [[lightning]].
** Can be fed [[flower]]s then milked for a [[suspicious stew]].

'''[[Fox]]es'''
* Spawn as red foxes in snowless [[taiga]] biomes, and as snow foxes in snowy taiga biomes 
* Can be bred with [[sweet berries]]. 
** The newborn fox trusts and defends the [[player]].
* Can pick up and carry [[item]]s in their mouths.
* May eat and drop what they are carrying.
* [[Wolf|Wolves]] and polar bears attack them.
* Attack chickens and rabbits.

=== Command format ===
'''General'''
* Added tab-complete for writing coordinate [[commands]].
* Added new {{code|PersistComponent}} command for [[mob]] persistence.
* Improved many map-making commands.{{more info}}
* Added {{cd|nameTag}} argument to {{cmd|summon}}, enabling summoning of entities with a name.

'''[[Game rule]]s'''
* Added {{code|showtags}} gamerule. {{more info}}

=== General ===
* Added support for ''Education Edition'' on ChromeOS.

'''Library '''
* Lessons are now tagged for easier search and discovery from the Library.

== Changes ==
{{more info}}

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Can now extract honey bottles from a full beehive.

'''[[Grass Path]]'''
* Is now available in the creative inventory.

'''[[Item frame]]s'''
* Now can be placed on the top and bottoms of blocks.

=== Items ===
'''[[Armor]]'''
* No longer turn red when a player gets hurt.

'''[[Turtle Egg]]'''
* Now have a 2D texture in the inventory.

=== Mobs and Entities ===
'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Cartographers now require 11 glass panes for an emerald.
* Farmers now sell [[suspicious stew]].

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Swimming]]'''
* Players no longer start swimming in 1-block deep water.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Education versions}}

[[de:Education Edition 1.14.30]]
[[es:Education Edition 1.14.30]]
[[pt:Edição Education 1.14.30]]
[[ru:1.14.30 (Education Edition)]]
[[zh:教育版1.14.30]]