{{Disambiguation}}

'''End''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==

=== Dimensions ===
* {{EnvLink|The End}} — A space-like dimension full of floating islands.
=== Blocks ===
*{{BlockLink|End stone}} - A common block native to the End which makes up End islands of all types.
**{{BlockLink|End stone bricks}} - The brick variant of End stone, which makes up most of an End city.
=== Items ===
*{{ItemLink|End crystal}} - Floating and destroyable crystals that are used to heal and respawn the Ender Dragon.
=== Achievements ===
* [[Achievement#The End?|The End?]] — An achievement.
* [[Achievement#The End|The End.]] — An achievement.
* [[Achievements#The End... Again...|The End... Again...]] — An achievement.
* [[Achievement#The End|Achievement § The End]] - An achievement category.

=== Advancements ===
* [[Advancement#The End?|The End?]] — An advancement.
* [[Advancement#The End|The End]] — An advancement.
* [[Advancement#Free the End|Free the End]] — An advancement.
* [[Advancement#The End... Again...|The End... Again...]] — An advancement.

=== Biomes ===
* {{BiomeLink|The End|link=The End (biome)}}
** {{BiomeLink|End Highlands}}{{only|java}}
** {{BiomeLink|End Midlands}}{{only|java}}
** {{BiomeLink|End Barrens}}{{only|java}}
** {{BiomeLink|Small End Islands}}{{only|java}}
=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|End City}} — A structure where [[shulker]]s dwell.
* {{EnvLink|End Ship}} — A structure where one can obtain an [[elytra]].
* {{EnvLink|Small island}} — Sometimes called "End island".
=== Other ===
* "[[The End (song)|The End]]", The nineteenth track on ''[[Minecraft - Volume Beta]]''
* ''[[Minecraft: The End]]'' – The fourth ''Minecraft'' novel

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==
=== DLC ===
* {{DuLevelLink|Echoing Void}}

=== Mission select map ===
* {{DuLevelLink|Other dimensions}}

=== Missions ===
* {{DuLevelLink|Broken Citadel}}
* {{DuLevelLink|End Wilds}}

=== Sub dungeons ===
* {{MCD|Astray Archipelago}}
* {{MCD|Broken Citadel Combat Floor}}
* {{MCD|End City}}
* {{MCD|End Shrine}}
* {{MCD|End Ship}}
* {{MCD|End Tower}}
* {{MCD|End Wilds Combat Floor}}
* {{MCD|Mountainside Cavern}}
* {{MCD|Obsidian Cavern}}
* {{MCD|Obsidian Gate Tower}}
* {{MCD|Obsidian Gate Tower First Challenge}}
* {{MCD|Obsidian Gate Tower Second Challenge}}
* {{MCD|Obsidian Gate Tower Third Challenge}}
* {{MCD|The Swarm Ancient Dungeon}}
* {{MCD|Watcher of the End Ancient Dungeon}}

=== Weapons ===
* {{DuItemLink|The beginning and the end}}

=== Mobs ===
* {{DuEntityLink|Watcher of the End}}

=== Skins ===
* {{DuEntityLink|End rogue}}

== ''Minecraft: Story Mode'' ==
* {{SMAreaLink|End}}

== ''Minecraft Blast'' ==
* [[Boosters (Blast)#End Crystal Booster|End Crystal Booster]], a booster.

== Other ==
* [[End Poem]]
* [[Tutorial:End_survival|End survival]], the process of living in the End after the [[Ender dragon]] has been defeated.

== See also ==
* [[Ender]]

[[de:Ende (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[es:End (desambiguación)]]
[[ja:エンド (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[ko:엔드 (동음이의)]]
[[pt:End (desambiguação)]]
[[ru:Край (значения)]]
[[uk:Енд (значення)]]
[[zh:末地（消歧义）]]