{{Disambiguation}}

'''Ender''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
=== Mobs ===
*{{EntityLink|Ender Dragon}} - a [[boss mob]], also acknowledged as the final boss mob of ''[[Minecraft]]''.
**{{ItemLink|Ender Dragon Spawn Egg}}
*{{EntityLink|Enderman}} - a [[neutral mob]] that spawns in all three [[dimension]]s and becomes hostile if looked at by a player or attacked, either by a mob or a player.
**{{ItemLink|Enderman Spawn Egg}}
*{{EntityLink|Endermite}} - a [[hostile mob]], spawned from thrown ender pearls with a 5% chance.
**{{ItemLink|Endermite Spawn Egg}}
*{{EntityLink|Shulker}} - a [[hostile mob]] found in [[end cities]].
**{{ItemLink|Shulker Spawn Egg}}

=== Blocks ===
*{{BlockLink|Ender chest}} - an ender variation of the normal chests that are connected to all other ender chests in a system.

=== Items ===
*{{ItemLink|Eye of Ender}} - artificial eyes that are used to activate the End Portal and locate strongholds.
*{{ItemLink|Ender Pearl}} - pearls dropped by endermen that are capable of teleporting players if thrown.

== ''Minecraft Mini-Series'' ==
* {{SkinLink|id=Enderall|The Enderall}} - enderman-like creature with big jaws

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==
{{Main|Dungeons:Ender}}
=== Mobs ===
*{{DuEntityLink|Blastling}} - a hostile mob in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
*{{DuEntityLink|Enderman}} - a [[MCD:Powerful|powerful]] mob.
*{{DuEntityLink|Endermite|Endermite (cosmetic)}} - the cosmetic pet of the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
*{{DuEntityLink|Endermite (mob)}} - a hostile mob in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
*{{DuEntityLink|Endersent}} - a powerful mob in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
**{{DuEntityLink|Spiked Eye}}
**{{DuEntityLink|Savage Eye}}
**{{DuEntityLink|Blight Eye}}
**{{DuEntityLink|Binding Eye}}
**{{DuEntityLink|Reaping Eye}}
**{{DuEntityLink|Ravenous Eye}}
*{{DuEntityLink|Heart of Ender}} - the final boss found in the [[MCD:Obsidian Pinnacle|Obsidian Pinnacle]], spawned upon the defeat of the [[MCD:Arch-Illager|Arch-Illager]].
*{{DuEntityLink|Shulker}} - a hostile mob in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
*{{DuEntityLink|Snareling}} - a hostile mob in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
**{{DuEntityLink|The Swarm}} - the ancient version of the snareing in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
*{{DuEntityLink|Vengeful Heart of Ender}} - the boss of the Echoing void DLC.
**{{DuEntityLink|Imperfect Heart of Ender}} - the imperfect version of the vengeful heart of Ender in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
*{{DuEntityLink|Watchling}} - a hostile mob in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
**{{DuEntityLink|Watcher of the End}} - the ancient version of the watching in the [[MCD:Echoing Void|Echoing Void]] DLC.
*{{DuEntityLink|Enderpod}} - rejected mob like endermite 
*{{DuEntityLink|id=Enderman|Gruntling}} - rejected variant of enderman

=== Locations ===
* [[Dungeons:Watcher of the End Ancient Dungeon|Watcher of the End Ancient Dungeon]]
* [[Dungeons:The Swarm Ancient Dungeon|The Swarm Ancient Dungeon]]

=== Other ===

*{{DuItemLink|Ender Armor}} - an unused armor variant of the [[Dungeons:Guard's Armor|guard’s armor]] that appears in [[Dungeons:Arcade|Minecraft Dungeons Arcade]].
* {{DuItemLink|Shulker Armor}}
*{{DuItemLink|Eye of Ender}} - eyes that are guarded by the six enchanted endersent, each endersent guarding an eye, and are used to activate the End Portal.

== ''Minecraft: Story Mode'' ==
===Mobs===
*{{SMEntityLink|Enderman}} - enderman from original game 
*{{SMEntityLink|Ender Dragon}} - ender dragon from original game 
*{{SMEntityLink|Endermite}} - endermite with old texture
*{{SMEntityLink|Giant Enderman}} - giant variation of enderman created by [[Romeo]]
*{{SMEntityLink|Icy Ender Creeper}} - a snow hybrid of enderman and [[creeper]] created by Romeo
*{{SMEntityLink|Shulker}} - white Shulker from original game

===Items===
* {{SMItemLink|Ender Crystal}}

=== Other ===
* {{SMAreaLink|EnderCon}} - an annual event

== Other media ==
* [[Ender Cup]] - a special edition [[MC Championship]] organized in collaboration with [[Mojang Studios]] as part of Minecraft's [[15th anniversary]].

== See also ==
* [[End (disambiguation)]]

[[es:Ender]]
[[fr:End (homonymie)]]
[[ja:エンダー]]
[[ko:엔더]]
[[pt:Ender]]