{{for|other uses|Feather (disambiguation)}}
{{distinguish|Slow Falling}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| versionAdded = {{Verlink|Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3}}
| dateAdded = October 6, 2011
| maxlevel = IV
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Boots|link=Boots}}
| weight = 5
| id = feather_falling
}}
'''Feather Falling''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[boots]] that reduces [[fall damage]].

== Obtaining ==
At level 30, Feather Falling is one of the rarest enchantments to obtain through an [[enchanting table]].<ref>{{bug|MC-130420||Feather Falling enchantment is very rare|WAI}}</ref> There is only a 2.7% chance for Feather Falling IV to appear on a pair of diamond boots when enchantments that require 30 levels are applied. However, Feather Falling appears much more commonly on an enchanting table at levels slightly lower than level 30. Below is a table with the chances of obtaining Feather Falling on diamond boots through an enchanting table at each level:
{| class="wikitable"
! Experience level
! Probability
|-
|30
|2.7%
|-
|28
|7.4%
|-
|26
|29.6%
|-
|24
|29.6%
|-
|'''22'''
|'''44.4%'''
|-
|20
|31.5%
|-
|}

As seen from the table above, Feather Falling is most common at level 22 when enchanting diamond boots through an enchanting table. Levels 24 and 26 still provide chances of obtaining Feather Falling much higher than that at level 30.

Feather Falling IV can also be obtained by combining two Feather Falling III enchantments on an anvil, trading with villagers, fishing, and in the following structure loot chests: [[desert pyramid]]s, [[stronghold]]s, [[ocean ruins]], [[ancient city|ancient cities]], [[mansion]]s, [[pillager outpost]]s, [[mineshaft]]s, [[monster room]]s, [[jungle pyramid]]s, and from vaults in [[trial chambers]].

== Usage ==
Feather Falling reduces all forms of fall damage taken, even though fall damage normally ignores [[armor]]. This is not limited to falling from a great height either; Feather Falling reduces the damage taken from thrown [[ender pearl]]s or from riding a [[mob]] that takes significant fall damage.

Feather Falling reduces damage taken from crashing into the ground with an [[elytra]], but it does not reduce damage taken from crashing into a wall.

The damage formula that Feather Falling uses reduces fall damage by {{Cd|(12 x level)%}}, up to a maximum of 48% with Feather Falling IV. This can be further increased with the [[Protection]] enchantment.

Damage reduction from [[Protection]], [[Fire Protection]], '''Feather Falling''', [[Blast Protection]], and [[Projectile Protection]] stacks up to an upper limit cap of 80%. Any further damage reduction that would normally occur is instead ignored. Feather Falling IV cannot reach this cap alone, as it reduces fall damage by only 48%. However, if combined with multiple Protection enchantments, the damage cap can be reached since Protection also reduces fall damage. To reach this cap using only Feather Falling, level VII would be required which is possible only with the use of [[commands]].

Below is a list of how much fall damage is taken from varying heights when using each level of Feather Falling, with bold values indicating the point at which 10 or more hearts of fall damage would be taken, causing instant death to a player:

{| class="wikitable mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"
!rowspan="2"| Height<br>in<br>blocks!! colspan="7" | Fall damage taken 
|-
!No<br>Protection
!<span class="explain" title="Feather Falling I">FF I</span>
!<span class="explain" title="Feather Falling II">FF II</span>
!<span class="explain" title="Feather Falling III">FF III</span>
!<span class="explain" title="Feather Falling IV">FF IV</span>
!<span class="explain" title="Feather Falling IV and Protection IV">FF IV +<br>Protection IV</span>
!<span class="explain" title="Feather Falling IV and at least two Protection IV">FF IV +<br>2*Protection IV</span>
|-
!1–3
|0||0||0||0||0||0||0
|-
!4
|1||0.88||0.76||0.64||0.52||0.36||0.2 
|-
!5
|2||1.76||1.52||1.28||1.04||0.72||0.4
|-
!6
|3||2.64||2.28||1.92||1.56||1.08||0.6
|-
!7
|4||3.52||3.04||2.56||2.08||1.44||0.8
|-
!8
|5||4.4||3.8||3.2||2.6||1.8||1
|-
!9
|6||5.28||4.56||3.84||3.12||2.16||1.2
|-
!10
|7||6.16||5.32||4.48||3.64||2.52||1.4
|-
!11
|8||7.04||6.08||5.12||4.16||2.88||1.6
|-
!12
|9||7.92||6.84||5.76||4.68||3.24||1.8 
|-
!13 
|10||8.8||7.6||6.4||5.2||3.6||2
|-
!14
|11||9.68||8.36||7.04||5.72||3.96||2.2
|-
!15
|12||10.56||9.12||7.68||6.24||4.32||2.4
|-
!16
|13||11.44||9.88||8.32||6.76||4.68||2.6
|-
!17
|14||12.32||10.64||8.96||7.28||5.04||2.8
|-
!18
|15||13.2||11.4||9.6||7.8||5.4||3
|-
!19
|16||14.08||12.16||10.24||8.32||5.76||3.2
|-
!20
|17||14.96||12.92||10.88||8.84||6.12||3.4
|-
!21
|18||15.84||13.68||11.52||9.36||6.48||3.6
|-
!22
|19||16.72||14.44||12.16||9.88||6.84||3.8
|-
!23 
|'''20 🪦'''||17.6||15.2||12.8||10.4||7.2||4
|-
!24
|21||18.48||15.96||13.44||10.92||7.56||4.2
|-
!25
|22||19.36||16.72||14.08||11.44||7.92||4.4
|-
!26
|23||'''20.24 🪦'''||17.48||14.72||11.96||8.28||4.6
|-
!27
|24||21.12||18.24||15.36||12.48||8.64||4.8
|-
!28
|25||22||19||16||13||9||5
|-
!29
|26||22.88||19.76||16.64||13.52||9.36||5.2
|-
!30
|27||23.76||'''20.52 🪦'''||17.28||14.04||9.72||5.4
|-
!31
|28||24.64||21.28||17.92||14.56||10.08||5.6
|-
!32 
|29||25.52||22.04||18.56||15.08||10.44||5.8
|-
!33
|30||26.4||22.8||19.2||15.6||10.8||6
|-
!34
|31||27.28||23.56||19.84||16.12||11.16 ||6.2
|-
!35
|32||28.16||24.32||'''20.48 🪦'''||16.64||11.52||6.4
|-
!36
|33||29.04||25.08||21.12||17.16||11.88||6.6
|-
!37
|34||29.92||25.84||21.76||17.68||12.24||6.8
|-
!38
|35||30.8||26.6||22.4||18.2||12.6||7
|-
!39
|36||31.68||27.36||23.04||18.72||12.96||7.2
|-
!40
|37||32.56||28.12||23.68||19.24||13.32||7.4
|-
!41
|38||33.44||28.88||24.32||19.76||13.68||7.6
|-
!42
|39||34.32||29.64||24.96||'''20.28 🪦'''||14.04||7.8
|-
!50
|47||41.36||35.72||30.08||24.44||16.92||9.4
|-
!60
|57||50.16||43.32||36.48||29.64||'''20.52 🪦'''||11.4
|-
!80
|77||67.76||58.52||49.28||40.04||27.72||15.4
|-
!100
|97||85.36||73.72||62.08||50.44||34.92||19.4
|-
!103
|100||88||76||64||52||36||'''20 🪦'''
|-
|}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=feather_falling
|displayname=Feather Falling
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=feather_falling
|displayname=Feather Falling
|id=2
|translationkey=enchantment.protect.fall
|foot=1}}

== Videos ==
{{yt|pU-5Y-IXiZY|align=inline}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.0|dev=Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4|Added Feather Falling.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w08a|Feather Falling enchantment is now functional for horses when added to horse armor in creative mode.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added Feather Falling.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Feather Falling.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Feather Falling.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== Trivia ==
*With [[boots]] enchanted with Feather Falling IV, and at least two other armor pieces enchanted with [[Protection]] IV, a [[player]] at full [[health]] can survive a maximum fall distance of 103 blocks.
**The fall distance can be extended to 503.3 blocks provided that the player lands on a [[hay bale]].
*Although Feather Falling should negate 12% of the damage per level, at level IV the height of guaranteed death is 55 blocks, not 57-58 (57.5) blocks.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}

[[de:Federfall]]
[[es:Caída de pluma]]
[[fr:Chute amortie]]
[[ja:落下耐性]]
[[lzh:羽落]]
[[pt:Peso-Pena]]
[[ru:Невесомость]]
[[th:เบาดุจขนนก]]
[[zh:摔落缓冲]]