{{about|the enchantment|the status effect|Fire Resistance}}
{{for||Protection (disambiguation)}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| versionAdded = {{Verlink|Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3}}
| dateAdded = October 6, 2011
| maxlevel = IV
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Helmet|link=Helmet}}{{ItemSprite|Chestplate|link=Chestplate}}{{ItemSprite|Leggings|link=Leggings}}{{ItemSprite|Boots|link=Boots}}{{ItemSprite|Turtle Shell|link=Turtle shell}}
| weight = 5
| id = fire_protection
| incompat =
* [[Blast Protection]]
* [[Projectile Protection]]
* [[Protection]]
}}
'''Fire Protection''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[armor]] that reduces [[damage]] received from [[fire]] and reduces [[burning time]].

== Obtaining ==
Fire Protection can be obtained from [[enchanting tables]], drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], librarian [[villager]]s, and in the following structure loot chests: [[desert pyramid]]s, [[stronghold]]s, [[ocean ruins]], [[ancient cities]], [[mansion]]s, [[pillager outpost]]s, [[mineshaft]]s, [[monster room]]s, [[jungle pyramid]]s, and from vaults in [[trial chambers]].

== Usage ==
Fire Protection reduces all sources of fire damage the user takes, including, but not limited to: [[fire]], [[lava]], [[magma block]]s, lit [[campfire]]s, and from [[mob]]s that deal fire damage ([[blaze]]'s projectile, flaming [[arrow]]s, burning [[zombie]]s). This enchantment is capable of reducing any fire damage that would normally be ignored by [[armor]].

Damage caused by close contact from [[blaze]]s and [[magma cube]]s is considered to be melee damage and therefore cannot be reduced by Fire Protection. Fire Protection doesn't reduce damage from a [[ghast]]'s fireball (contact is considered projectile damage and the resulting blast is considered explosive damage), though it does mitigate effects from the leftover blocks of fire from the blast.

<i>Fire damage</i> is defined by the game as any [[damage type]] in the <code>minecraft/tags/damage_type/is_fire</code> [[tag]]. Custom damage types defined by [[data packs]] can be added to this tag to allow damage dealt with with the damage type through the {{cmd|damage}} command to be reduced by Fire Protection.

The formula for fire damage reduction <code>(8 × ''level'')%</code>, up to a maximum 32% reduction with Fire Protection IV. The reduction stacks with multiple pieces of armor enchanted with Fire Protection.

Fire Protection has the side effect of reducing burn time when set on fire by <code>(15 × ''level'')%</code>. This effect can stack on multiple armor pieces. This means that if the wearer is currently wearing armor with a total Fire Protection level of at least VII, then the total burning time reduction is 100%, effectively making the wearer fireproof.

Damage reduction from [[Protection]], Fire Protection, [[Feather Falling]], [[Blast Protection]], and [[Projectile Protection]] stacks up to an upper limit cap of 80% (see [[Armor#Enchantments|armor enchantments]]). Any further damage that would have been reduced is instead ignored. This cap can be reached with a total of 10 combined levels of Fire Protection, or by combining 12 levels of Protection with 4 levels of Fire Protection.

== Incompatibilities ==
[[Protection]], Fire Protection, [[Blast Protection]], and [[Projectile Protection]] are mutually exclusive. Attempting to combine these enchantments with an [[anvil]] deletes the enchantment in the upgrade slot and replace it with the enchantment in the sacrifice slot. However, if [[commands]] are used to force two or more of these enchantments on the same item, the effects stack. But when the total of the [[Armor#Enchantments|EPF]] provided by the protection enchantments surpasses 20, the rest of these enchantments will no longer directly reduce the damage.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=fire_protection
|displayname=Fire Protection
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=fire_protection
|displayname=Fire Protection
|id=1
|translationkey=enchantment.protect.fire
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.0|dev=Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4|Added Fire Protection.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w02a|Protection enchantments are no longer mutually exclusive.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w08a|Fire Protection enchantment is now functional for horses when added to horse armor in creative mode.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14.3|dev=Pre-Release 2|Protection enchantments are again mutually exclusive.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w18a|The [[burning time]] decrease from Fire Protection is now displayed as a tooltip.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=24w21a|Burning time now stacks when on multiple armor pieces.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=Pre-Release 4|Burning time decrease reduced to 3.75% per level, was previously 15% per level.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=Release Candidate 1|Reverted burning time decrease back to 15% per level.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=June 10, 2024|slink=https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-1-21-release-candidate-1|[[Mojang Studios]] confirmed both Fire Protection and Blast Protection are to be rebalanced in the future.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added Fire Protection.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Fire Protection.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Fire Protection.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list|-\"spawn protection\"}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}

[[de:Feuerschutz]]
[[es:Protección contra el fuego]]
[[fr:Protection contre le feu]]
[[ja:火炎耐性 (エンチャント)]]
[[pt:Proteção contra Fogo]]
[[th:ทนไฟ]]
[[uk:Захист від вогню]]
[[zh:火焰保护]]