{{about||the melee weapon counterpart|Fire Aspect|the block|Fire}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| versionAdded = {{Verlink|Java Edition 1.1}}
| dateAdded = January 12, 2012
| maxlevel = I
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Bow|link=Bow}}
| weight = 2
| id = flame
}}
'''Flame''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[bow]]s that causes [[arrow]]s to be set on fire.

== Obtaining ==
Flame can be obtained from [[enchanting tables]], drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
Arrows shot from a Flame bow are on fire when shot, set fire to [[mob]]s they hit, and deal {{hp|5}} fire damage over 5 seconds (first damage is ignored). Fire damage applies after initial damage, similar to [[Fire Aspect]] for melee weapons. Creatures killed by fire do not drop XP unless a player has dealt non-fire damage to it within the past 5 seconds.

Unlike [[flint and steel]], flaming arrows affect ''only'' players, mobs, [[TNT]], [[campfire]]s, and [[candle]]s. No other blocks catch fire. For example, a flaming arrow shot into a tree continues to burn without igniting the tree. Flaming arrows do not produce light.

Flaming arrows become normal arrows if fired through water or [[rain]].

If [[commands]] or an [[NBT]] editor are used to increase the enchantment level beyond its normal limit of 1, the duration of the fire does not increase accordingly.

=== Specific cases ===
If Flame is applied to a [[crossbow]] by use of [[command]]s or an [[anvil]] in Creative, the enchantment causes the weapon to set targets on fire when using arrows as ammo, but not when using [[firework rocket]]s as ammo. If Flame is applied to a trident by use of commands or an anvil in Creative, the enchantment cause the weapon's thrown projectile to ignite [[TNT]], [[TNT minecart]]s, [[candle]]s, and [[campfire]]s, but not entities.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=flame
|displayname=Flame
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=flame
|displayname=Flame
|id=21
|translationkey=enchantment.arrowFire
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.1|dev=release|Added Flame.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.4.2|dev=12w34a|Flame enchanted [[bow]]s now ignite [[TNT]] blocks.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9|dev=15w42a|Flame I has been renamed to just Flame.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w09a|Flame now works on [[crossbow]]s if placed onto the weapon using data manipulation or a change to the <code>enchantable/*</code> tags.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added the Flame enchantment.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Flame.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Flame.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== Trivia ==
* If the flaming arrow ignites a [[TNT]], the TNT's explosion damage counts as an attack of the arrow's owner. 
** Thus a mob killed by such a TNT drops [[experience]], and its [[drops]] are even affected by [[Looting]] if the owner is holding an item enchanted with it.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|ranged}}

[[de:Flamme]]
[[es:Fuego (encantamiento)]]
[[fr:Flamme]]
[[it:Fiamma]]
[[ja:フレイム]]
[[pt:Chama]]
[[th:เปลวไฟ]]
[[zh:火矢]]