{{Disambiguation}}

'''Flower''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
=== Blocks ===
* {{BlockLink|Flowers}} - non-solid plants that occur in a variety of shapes and colors.
** {{BlockLink|Dandelion}}
** {{BlockLink|Poppy}}
** {{BlockLink|Blue Orchid}}
** {{BlockLink|Allium}}
** {{BlockLink|Azure Bluet}}
** {{BlockLink|Red Tulip}}
** {{BlockLink|Pink Tulip}}
** {{BlockLink|White Tulip}}
** {{BlockLink|Orange Tulip}}
** {{BlockLink|Oxeye Daisy}}
** {{BlockLink|Cornflower}}
** {{BlockLink|Lily of the Valley}}
** {{BlockLink|Rose Bush}}
** {{BlockLink|Lilac}}
** {{BlockLink|Peony}}
** {{BlockLink|Sunflower}}
** {{BlockLink|Wither Rose}} - a damaging flower dropped/placed when the [[wither]] kills a [[mob]].
** {{BlockLink|Torchflower}} - a flower grown from a torchflower crop.
** {{BlockLink|Pitcher Plant}} - a tall flower grown from a pitcher pod.
** {{BlockLink|Open eyeblossom}}- a flower that is exclusive to the [[Pale Garden]] and gives damage to bees
** {{BlockLink|Closed eyeblossom}}- a closed version of the [[Eyeblossom|Open eyeblossom]]
* {{BlockLink|Torchflower Crop}} - a crop that grows into a torchflower.
* {{BlockLink|Pitcher Crop}} - a crop that grows into a pitcher plant.
* {{BlockLink|Flowering Azalea}} - a flowering bush found in [[lush caves]].
* {{BlockLink|Flowering Azalea Leaves}} - flowering variant of azalea leaves.
* {{BlockLink|Cherry Leaves}} - blossoming [[leaves]] that can be used to breed or pollinate [[bee]]s.
* {{BlockLink|Mangrove Propagule}} - a plant that grows into a [[mangrove]] and that can be used to breed or pollinate [[bee]]s.
* {{BlockLink|Spore Blossom}} - a ceiling-hanging flower that emits green particles.
* {{BlockLink|Pink Petals}} - small flowers found in [[cherry grove]]s.
* {{BlockLink|Chorus Flower}} - a plant that grows in [[the End]].
* {{BlockLink|Flower Pot}} - a decorative block that can contain flowers and other plants.

=== Items ===
* {{ItemLink|Torchflower Seeds}} - an item found by [[sniffer]]s that can be grown into a torchflower.
* {{ItemLink|Pitcher Pod}} - an item found by sniffers that can be grown into a pitcher plant.
* {{ItemLink|Flower Charge Banner Pattern}} - an item used to customize [[banner]]s with a flower charge design.

=== Biomes ===
* {{BiomeLink|Flower Forest}}

=== Features ===
* {{EnvLink|Vegetation}} - a terrain feature composed of flowers or other plants/fungi.

=== Downloadable content ===
* {{BlockLink|Glow Flower}}

== ''Minecraft Earth'' ==
* [[Earth:Flower|Flower]]
** [[Earth:Buttercup|Buttercup]]
** [[Earth:Pink Daisy|Pink Daisy]]