{{TOC|right}}

A fluid [[Tag (Java Edition)|tag]] is a group of [[fluid]]s.

== List of tags ==
=== bubble_column_can_occupy ===
{{info needed}}

{{tag_list|bubble_column_can_occupy|type=fluid|upcoming=je 26.1
|water
}}

=== lava ===
* [[Cactus]] breaks when next to this fluid.
* Used to enable the lava texture on a fluid.
* Used to create a smoke particle from rain instead of the normal rain particle.
* Used to enable lava-like [[fog]].
* Items and experience orbs burn when in this fluid.
* When a bucket containing this fluid is placed, it uses the lava sound effect.
* Indicates a LAVA pathfinder node.
* Used in the process of forming stone/cobblestone/obsidian.
* Used in various [[strider]] pathfinding procedures.
* Striders cannot be ridden while submersed in fluids in this tag.

{{tag_list|lava|type=fluid
|lava
|flowing_lava
}}

=== supports_frogspawn ===
{{info needed}}

{{tag_list|supports_frogspawn|type=fluid|upcoming=je 26.1
|water
}}

=== supports_lily_pad ===
{{info needed}}

{{tag_list|supports_lily_pad|type=fluid|upcoming=je 26.1
|water
}}

=== supports_sugar_cane_adjacently ===
{{info needed}}

{{tag_list|supports_sugar_cane_adjacently|type=fluid|upcoming=je 26.1
|#water
}}

=== water ===
* [[Coral]] must have this on at least one side.
* Coral fans must be placed in this.
* Farmland uses this to determine hydration.
* Sugar Cane checks if this fluid, or a frosted ice block, is present next to the block below its base.
* Sponges can absorb this fluid.
* Several particles use this to determine whether they should persist (bubble, bubble_column_up, current_down, underwater).
* The drip particle internally uses this to determine its color.
* Used to enable water [[fog]].
* Determines if entities move as if they are in water.
* Indicates a WATER pathfinder node. Certain mobs pathfind toward this.
* Boats check for this.
* Concrete solidifies in this.
* Items and experience orbs float in this.
* Guardians, squid, and turtles check for this.
* Fishing bobbers bob in this.
* Glass bottles may be filled in this.
* This fluid cannot be placed by buckets in the nether.

{{tag_list|water|type=fluid
|water
|flowing_water
}}

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=18w19a|Added {{cd|d=and|#lava|#water}} tags.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w19a|Moved folder {{cd|tags/fluids}} to {{cd|tags/fluid}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine|java upcoming}}
|{{HistoryLine||26.1|dev=snap3|Added {{cd|d=and|bubble_column_can_occupy|supports_frogspawn|supports_lily_pad|supports_sugar_cane_adjacently}} tags.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|datapack}}

[[fr:Tag de fluide (Édition Java)]]
[[pt:Marcação de fluido (Edição Java)]]
[[uk:Теґ рідин (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版标签/流体]]