{{for|other uses|Frost (disambiguation)}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = II
| secondaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Boots|link=Boots}}
| weight = 1
| id = frost_walker
| incompat = [[Depth Strider]]
}}
'''Frost Walker''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[boots]] that turns water into [[frosted ice]] beneath the user's feet, and provides immunity to [[campfire]] and [[magma block]] damage.

== Obtaining ==
Frost Walker is a [[treasure enchantment]]; it can be obtained from jungle temple and stronghold [[chest loot]], [[fishing]], [[raid]] drops{{only|bedrock|short=1}}, or [[trading]] with a librarian of any level.

== Usage ==
Frost Walker–enchanted boots transform any source [[water]] block into [[frosted ice]] if
*the player wearing the boots is moving on ground (not falling, jumping, or flying),
*the water block has [[air]] above it<ref>{{bug|MC-185353||Water can't be frozen with Frost Walker if there is a block on top|WAI}}</ref>,
*the water block lies within a circle radius{{only|java}} or square radius {{only|bedrock}} of 2 + ''level'' around the player's destination [[block]] (i.e., the block onto which the player is about to move),
*the water block is on the same level as the player's destination block,
*the player is on the ground,{{only|java}}{{Verify|The first bullet already says that the player must be on the ground, and it has no "Java-only" tag; is this a different requirement that should be explained more clearly? Or is this subsumed in the first bullet? If so, is it truly a Java-only requirement?}} and
*the player's motion is "natural"; i.e., being pushed by a piston head does not count, but being bounced by a [[Slime Block|slime block]] that was pushed horizontally by a [[piston]] does. Being moved by flowing water also counts.

Continuous motion is required for ice to remain when light levels would otherwise cause it to melt. When a [[player]] stops walking on the [[ice]] created by the enchantment, the ice gradually melts from around and under the player (at which point the player falls into the water). In addition, the ice created from Frost Walker lasts longer during the night because there is no sunlight to melt it.

Frost Walker also eliminates all damage from [[magma block]]s and [[campfire]]s, but not [[lava]]. The boots do not take [[durability]] damage while on these blocks.

If an [[armor stand]] equipped with Frost Walker boots is moved, it converts nearby water sources to frosted ice in a similar way as a player wearing Frost Walker boots does.<ref>{{bug|MC-93313||Armor stands that have frost walker enchanted boots turn near water into frost|WAI}}</ref>

Additionally, enchanted boots with Frost Walker can be applied on [[Fox|foxes]] when held.{{only|bedrock|short=1}}

== Incompatibilities ==
The Frost Walker and [[Depth Strider]] enchantments are mutually exclusive, meaning only one can be added to any given item in Survival. When added through use of [[commands]], both enchantments function as normal.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=frost_walker
|displayname=Frost Walker
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=frost_walker
|displayname=Frost Walker
|id=25
|translationkey=enchantment.frostwalker
|foot=1}}

== Achievements ==
{{load achievements|Let It Go}}

== History ==
{{info needed section|whether excessive levels work differently in the first snapshots the enchantment existed in}}

=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9|dev=15w42a|Added Frost Walker.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=15w43a|Frost Walker no longer works on flowing [[water]].}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=15w49a|Frost Walker now works when standing on transparent [[block]]s.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=15w51a|Frost Walker no longer affects [[water]] blocks that do not have an [[air]] block above.}}
|{{HistoryLine||?|Frost Walker no longer behaves differently at high levels.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.10|dev=16w20a|[[Mob]]s with frost walker boots no longer take damage when walking on [[magma block]]s.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w19a|Frosted ice being placed by Frost Walker now emits a <code>block_place</code> [[vibration]] of frequency <code>13</code>.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.1.0|dev=alpha 1.1.0.0|Added Frost Walker.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|Legacy Console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU43|xbone=CU33|ps3=1.36|psvita=1.36|ps4=1.36|switch=1.0.1|wiiu=Patch 13|Added Frost Walker.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|new3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9.19|Added Frost Walker.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== Trivia ==
*The ''[[Achievement|Let It Go!]]'' achievement title is a reference to the song of the same name from the movie ''{{Wikipedia|Frozen (2013 film)|Frozen}}''.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}

[[de:Eisläufer]]
[[es:Paso helado]]
[[fr:Semelles givrantes]]
[[ja:氷渡り]]
[[lzh:履霜]]
[[pt:Passos Gelados]]
[[th:นักเดินเยือกแข็ง]]
[[zh:冰霜行者]]