{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| image= Frying Table.png
| renewable= Yes
| stackable= Yes (64)
| tool= Any
| light= No
| transparent= No
| flammable= No
| lavasusceptible= Yes
| waterloggable = Yes
}}
In [[24w14potato]], a '''frying table''' is a [[block]] that is used to cook [[potato]]es and fry [[potato peels]], turning them into [[hash browns]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
A frying table can be broken using any tool with equal efficiency, and always drops itself.
{{Breaking row|Frying Table||horizontal=1}}

=== Natural generation ===
Frying tables generate naturally as part of [[potato village]]s.

=== Crafting ===
{{Crafting
|C1=Stick
|A2=Iron Ingot
|B2=Iron Ingot
|C2=Gold Nugget
|A3=Potato Planks
|B3=Potato Planks
|Output=Frying Table
|ignoreusage=1
}}

== Usage ==
Unlike [[campfire]]s, frying tables do not produce [[light]].

Frying tables are lit by default when placed. They can be manually lit using [[flint and steel]] (either by player or dispenser), [[fire charge]]s, shooting it with a flaming [[arrow]], or [[fireball]] projectiles when {{cmd|gamerule mobGriefing}} is true.

A frying table can be extinguished by [[waterlogging]] it, throwing a [[splash water bottle]] at it, or {{control|using}} a [[shovel]] on it. Frying tables can not be lit from their bottom face. As with [[torch]]es, [[rain]] does not extinguish frying tables.

Using flint and steel on the side of a lit or [[Waterlogging|waterlogged]] frying table sets the adjacent air block on fire instead.

=== Particles and smoke signals ===
Frying tables produce smoke particles that float up around 10 blocks before disappearing. If a [[hay bale]] is placed below, the frying table becomes a signal fire and the smoke floats up 24 blocks instead.

Frying table smoke particles can partially pass through a block directly above it, but do not pass through blocks more than one block directly above it.

Although a trapdoor is thinner than a slab, a trapdoor can block the smoke completely, preventing the smoke from floating up.

Frying tables emit extra smoke particles during rain, similar to [[lava]].

Frying tables also emit occasional ember particles, similar to lava.

=== Damage ===
Frying tables cannot damage players, but do damage [[mob]]s standing on top of them even if underwater (with exceptions such as [[shulker]]s, [[zombified piglin]]s, or [[guardian]]s), but only if lit. Frying tables deal {{hp|1}} (although [[damage immunity]] reduces this to once every half-second) Frying tables do not cause lasting burning or destroy items. Damage taken is considered [[fire damage]] and is reduced by [[armor]] (which loses [[Durability#Armor durability|durability]]), the [[Resistance]] effect, and the [[Protection]] and [[Fire Protection]] enchantments. The player can avoid being damaged at all, either by using a [[potion of Fire Resistance]] or wearing [[Frost Walker]] boots.

Regardless of [[Solid block#Height|height]], all blocks prevent damage done to mobs or players above frying tables. The frying table deals damage only to entities occupying its block.

=== Cooking ===
The [[player]] can place normal [[potato peels]] and any dyed [[Potato Peels|potato peel]] on a lit frying table by {{control|using}} the item on it, resulting in [[hash browns]]. [[Corrupted potato peels]] can't be fried.

Player can also bake normal [[potato]]es using the frying table, but no other [[food]] can be cooked on it.

Up to four items can be placed on a frying table, which cooks them simultaneously. Frying tables do not require any kind of fuel to cook. On a frying table, food produce small smoke [[Particles (Java Edition)|particles]], indicating they are being cooked. Items take 30 seconds (600 [[tick]]s) to cook. If the frying table is extinguished while cooking food, the remaining cooking time quickly counts back up. Food items can be placed on an unlit frying table. Any items cooking on a frying table always drop when the frying table [[block]] is broken.

=== Hoppers ===
Frying tables do not have an [[Inventory#External inventories|external inventory]]. Raw food cannot be loaded into the frying table with a [[hopper]].

A hopper placed directly underneath a frying table pulls through any items dropped into the frying table . Any drops from a mob that dies in the frying table get pulled into the hopper.

=== Bees ===
Placing a frying table under a [[beehive]] or [[bee nest]] allows players to harvest [[honey bottle]]s or [[honeycomb]] without provoking the [[bee]]s.
There must be unobstructed air between the frying table and the beehive or bee nest. [[Carpet]]s are an exception.

=== Note blocks ===
Frying tables can be placed under [[note block]]s to produce "bass" sounds.

=== Piston interactivity ===
Pistons do not interact with frying tables. Frying tables neither move nor break when pushed or pulled by pistons.

== Sounds ==
=== Generic ===
{{Sound table/Block/Wood/JE}}

=== Unique ===
{{SoundTable
| type = java
| {{SoundLine
| sound =Campfire crackle1.ogg
|sound2=Campfire crackle2.ogg
|sound3=Campfire crackle3.ogg
|sound4=Campfire crackle4.ogg
|sound5=Campfire crackle5.ogg
|sound6=Campfire crackle6.ogg
|subtitle=Campfire crackles
|source=block
|description=Randomly while lit
|id=block.campfire.crackle
|translationkey=subtitles.block.campfire.crackle
|volume=0.5-1.5
|pitch=0.6-1.3
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|sound=Flint and steel click.ogg
|subtitle=Flint and steel click
|source=block
|description=When a frying table is lit with a flint and steel
|id=item.flintandsteel.use
|translationkey=subtitles.item.flintandsteel.use
|volume=1.0
|pitch=0.8-1.2
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|sound=Ghast fireball4.ogg
|subtitle=Fireball whooshes
|source=block
|description=When a frying table is lit with a fire charge
|id=item.firecharge.use
|translationkey=subtitles.item.firecharge.use
|volume=1.0
|pitch=0.8-1.2
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|rowspan=2
|sound=Fizz.ogg
|subtitle=Fire extinguishes
|source=block
|description=When a frying table is extinguished with water
|id=entity.generic.extinguish_fire
|translationkey=subtitles.entity.generic.extinguish_fire
|volume=1.0
|pitch=1.0
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|subtitle=Fire extinguished
|source=block
|description=When a frying table is extinguished
|id=block.fire.extinguish
|translationkey=subtitles.block.fire.extinguish
|volume=0.5
|pitch=2.0
| distance = 16
}}
}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|spritetype=block
|displayname=Frying Table
|showblocktags=1
|blocktags=campfires
|generatetranslationkeys=1
|nameid=frying_table
|foot=1}}

=== Block states ===
{{see also|Block states}}

{{bst|facing|north|east,north,south,west|The direction the frying table is facing.<br>The opposite from the direction the player faces while placing the frying table.}}
{{bst|lit|true|false,true|Whether the frying table is lit.}}
{{bst|signal_fire|false|false,true|Whether the frying table has a [[hay bale]] below it.}}
{{bst|waterlogged|false|false,true|Whether or not there's water in the same place as this frying table.|foot=1}}

=== Block data ===
A frying table has a [[block entity]] associated with it that holds additional data about the [[block]].

{{see also|Block entity format}}
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}} Block entity data
** {{nbt inherit/blockentity}}
** {{nbt|int-array|CookingTimes}}: How long each item has been cooking, first index is slot 0, etc.
** {{nbt|int-array|CookingTotalTimes}}: How long each item has to cook, first index is slot 0, etc.
** {{nbt|list|Items}}: List of up to 4 items currently cooking.
*** {{nbt inherit/item}}
</div>

== Trivia ==
*The block is a reference to when a tab titled "Frying table" was open in a [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0yXEhvqwoH4&t=189s video] of the [[crafter]], causing many in the community to think it was a new block in development. [[Brandon Pearce|kingbdogz]] later revealed that the tab had nothing to do with [[Minecraft]].<ref>{{Tweet|Borapaws|1771558626596950467|pleading for the minecraft community to see these|March 23, 2024}}</ref>

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== References ==
<references />

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Utility blocks]]
[[Category:Manufactured blocks]]
[[Category:Block entities]]
[[Category:Storage]]
[[Category:Generated structure blocks]]

[[ja:Frying Table]]
[[zh:煎炸台]]