{{Infobox website
| title = Get Satisfaction
| image = GS Logo.png
| type = Forums
| website = [http://web.archive.org/web/20130818115246/https://getsatisfaction.com/mojang# getsatisfaction.com/mojang]
}}

The [[Mojang]] '''Get Satisfaction''' page was a mostly community-run website where people could submit ideas, problems, praise, and questions. Their posts could then be commented on by fellow players or Mojang Studios' staff.<ref>[http://web.archive.org/web/20130818115246/https://getsatisfaction.com/mojang# Archived Get Satisfaction community site]</ref>

Mojang's Get Satisfaction page was originally created by [[Notch]] in November 2010 to make fans stop submitting ideas to his Twitter,<ref>[[wordofnotch:1727680340/bug-fixing-made-fun]]</ref> but was abandoned shortly after. The site was sporadically updated by [[Jeb]] and other Mojang team members.

Get Satisfaction is a customer community software platform for technical support that is used by many companies to enable their customers to ask, suggest, praise, and report problems.<ref name=bw>Miller, Kerry (2007-09-10). [http://www.businessweek.com/smallbiz/content/sep2007/sb20070910_313949.htm "Crowdsourcing Customer Service"]. BusinessWeek. Retrieved 2012-05-13.</ref> It was founded on January 31, 2007 by several people, including {{w|Lane Becker}},<ref>Becker, Lane (2007-01-31). [http://blog.getsatisfaction.com/2007/01/31/demand-satisfaction/ "Demand Satisfaction!"]. Get Satisfaction. Retrieved 2012-05-13.</ref> {{w|Amy Muller}}, {{w|Thor Muller}},<ref name=bw /> and {{w|Jonathan Grubb}}, and was publicly launched in September 2007.<ref name=fast>Pattison, Kermit (2008-04-24). [http://www.fastcompany.com/articles/2008/04/interview-muller.html "Does a New Website Hold the Secret to Great Customer Service?"]. Fast Company. Retrieved 2012-05-13.</ref>

== Closing ==

On February 8, 2012, [[Kappische]] posted<ref>https://getsatisfaction.com/mojang/topics/we_are_moving-10q7qv</ref> that [[Mojang]]'s Get Satisfaction page was closing down, and that its users should move to [[Minecraft Forums]] and [http://help.minecraft.net/ Mojang's new help page]. During Marc's AMA on Reddit, he stated that "Even though numerous questions were answered there, the players deserved a full, professional, company-supported help system."<ref>http://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/s6c46/i_am_marc_watson_customer_support_manager_of/c4bgvv7</ref>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox official resources|mojang}}

[[Category:Community]]
[[Category:History]]
[[Category:Websites]]

[[cs:Get Satisfaction]]
[[de:Get Satisfaction]]
[[fr:Get Satisfaction]]
[[it:Get Satisfaction]]
[[nl:Get Satisfaction]]
[[pl:Get Satisfaction]]
[[pt:Get Satisfaction]]
[[ru:Get Satisfaction]]
[[zh:Get Satisfaction]]