{{Wip}}{{Character
| gender = Female
| species = Human
| affiliations = [[Environmental Stewardship Alliance]]
| actor = [[James Fouhey]] <small>(audiobook)</small>
| first_appearance = ''[[Minecraft: The Tournament]]''
| familial = * [[Dri Warner]] <small>(granddaughter)</small>
* [[Jett Warner]] <small>(grandson)</small>
* [[Mr. Warner]] <small>(son)</small>
* [[Piper Warner]]
}}'''Granny''' is the nickname of the Warner family grandmother, appearing as a major character within [[Minecraft: The Tournament|''Minecraft: The Tournament'']]. In the novel she serves as an impetus for the plot, moving in with the family after her house suffered a flood and risked being condemned.

== Appearance ==
When introduced, Granny is described wearing fuzzy blue house shoes and a purple T-shirt labeled "Wisdom & Share." Her hair is styled into locs, braided over a shoulder.

== Personality ==
In spite of her age, Granny is shown to have a carefree and mildly sarcastic personality. However, she is also quite vulnerable, [[Mr. Warner]] remarking she hadn't been happy in a while.

== Biography ==
Prior to the events of the story, Granny's house was hit with a flood, leaving her briefly homeless. The [[Environmental Stewardship Alliance]] stepped in to help her relocate and preserve what they could, leaving her to move in with her child and grandchildren. In the house she took refuge in the room normally used for [[Piper Warner]]'s office.

When her grandson [[Jett]] got accepted into a special competition, Granny was overjoyed at the opportunity.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox meta novels|the tournament}}
[[Category:Book characters]]
[[Category:Female]]