{{More images}}{{Infobox video
| type = Narrative let's play
| starring = [[Daniel Middleton]]
| location = {{w|ExCeL London}}, {{w|London}}, {{w|England}}
| prev = [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EK8EkMitbDo THE BEACH CONTESTS!!]
| next = [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zBzjb91xhNo EGYPTIAN TREASURE PYRAMID!!]
| image = Great London Robbery thumbnail.jpg
| length = 26:36 (estimation)
| date = * July 4–5, 2015{{verify}} (MINECON)
* July 9, 2015 (DanTDM)
* August 10, 2015 (Minecraft)
| distribution = [[MINECON 2015]]
}}

'''GREAT LONDON ROBBERY!!''' is an episode of [[DanTDM]]'s [https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Custom_Mod_Adventure ''Custom Mod Adventures''] series, filmed as part of a panel at [[MINECON 2015|''MINECON 2015'']].  

== Summary ==
<onlyinclude>The adventure begins with Dan outside of his laboratory, knocking on his own [[door]]. Looking for Dr. Trayaurus, Dan finds him beside a couch, with Grimm, and decides to turn on a radio. In the nick of time, he catches wind of a robbery, that the {{Wikipedia|Elizabeth II|Queen}} of {{w|England}} has had her crown jewels stolen. Deciding to intervene, Dan and Trayaurus use a teleporter to make the long trek over to {{w|London}}. Flicking a [[Lever|switch]], they arrive right beside the {{Wikipedia|London Eye}}.

Beginning their investigation, Trayaurus asks to ride the London Eye, but Dan tries to keep their priorities straight. They search out a witness, asking a nearby bus driver about the situation. They point the duo towards the police station, where Dan contemplates robbing a [[chest]]. Instead, Dan approaches the police chief and asks to help with the jewel case, citing his previous tenure as an officer.<ref>{{YouTube link|xHdD0xuJtOU|Minecraft {{!}} POLICE STATION MISSION {{!}} Custom Mod Adventure|DanTDM|26 February 2015}}</ref> Not convincing the chief, he explains that they caught wind of a UFO in the {{Wikipedia|River Thames}}, suggesting they begin the search there and search for a missing bus [[sign]]. Initially, they try to ride [[Boat|boats]], but have difficulty navigating between [[ice]] and instead [[Swimming|swim]]. At the opposite side of a bridge, Dan finds a dent on a wall, finding a red bus sign inside a storage container.

Returning to the station, Dan returns the sign, proving his and his friend's credibility. Impressed, the two are redirected to the Chief Advisor, who spills the beans on the jewel mystery. The perpetrator is said to have done a near perfect crime, but a sole witness remains at a {{Wikipedia|tea room}}, to the left of the building. They enter the business and greet an employee, Belle, who agrees to help on the condition that Dan help brew coffee. After going through the steps and delivering the drinks to customers, Belle explains that there was "a lot of scurrying in the streets last night." Her friend Millie, who runs the London Eye, caught a good look at the perpetrator and directs them to investigate there. While leaving, Dan accidentally steals [[bread]].

Returning to the London Eye, Dan notices that the wheel is inoperable. They find Millie, who explains she is "in such a pickle right now!" She elaborates, saying that a pipe and engine in one of two engine rooms broke unexpectedly, which Dan agrees to repair. After figuring out how to craft a "redstone engine" and "[[cobblestone]] pipe" with help from the audience, the Eye is operational once more, Millie directing them to one of the pods. Inside, they  eye {{Wikipedia|Big Ben}}, discovering a hole in the clock. Thinking fast, Dan returns to the police station and retrieves a grappling hook, and climbs on top of a building beside the clock. Discovering two more holes in Big Ben, Dan emerges inside and infiltrates a maintenance shaft, discovering a laboratory.  

While Trayaurus ducks for cover inside of a wall, the two discover their suspect right outside. Without any means of self defense, Dan decides to escalate the confrontation and fist fight him, knocking him off Big Ben. The culprit defeated, Dan and Trayaurus discover the jewels and a [[Paper|note]], piecing together that he was none other than [[Denton]], their archenemy. The problem resolved, Dan returns the crown and jewels to the police station. Feeling spooked, they then dispose of Denton's warning into the river, and then resolve to meet the queen herself. Teleporting over, she thanks them for their efforts, and bids the two farewell. Before leaving, Dan takes a selfie with her, to audience applause.</onlyinclude>

==== Entities ====
{{columns-list|* {{CharacterLink|link=NPC|id=minecon-belle|Belle}}
* {{EntityLink|id=Enderman|Brad Ender}} (unseen)
* {{EntityLink|id=human|NPC|Bus Driver}}
* [[C418]] (mentioned)
* {{EntityLink|id=human|NPC|Carl}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=NPC|Chief Advisor}}
* {{EntityLink|Chicken}}
* {{EntityLink|Cow}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Craig_The_Mailman|Craig}} (mentioned)
* {{SkinLink|DanTDM}}
* {{CharacterLink|Denton}}
* {{CharacterLink|Dr. Trayaurus}}
* {{EntityLink|id=Skeleton Wolf|link=https://dantdm.fandom.com/wiki/Grim|Grim}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=NPC|id=Minecon-Ken|Ken}}
* {{EntityLink|id=human|NPC|Mable}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=NPC|id=Minecon-Meadow|Meadow}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=NPC|id=Minecon-Millie|Millie}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=NPC|Police Chief}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=w:Elizabeth II|Queen}}
* {{EntityLink|id=human|w:Queen's Guards|Queen's Guards}}|colwidth=20em}}

== Quotes ==
{{Quote|Today, Trayaurus and I are helping out London with a great robbery mystery!! With the help from the crowd at Minecon 2015, can we find out who stole the royal jewels and return them to the Queen?|Video description}}

== Featured content ==
{{Expand list}}{{columns-list|
* ''[https://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/mapping-and-modding-java-edition/minecraft-mods/1278956-custom-npcs Custom NPCs]'' by Noppes
* ''[https://www.planetminecraft.com/project/london-11/ London]'' by KnownTheRanger
|colwidth=20em}}

== Videos ==
{{YT|SunHhZkp-P0}}{{YouTube|bJ8oeIZBzw8}}

== Trivia ==

* The version uploaded onto the Minecraft YouTube channel features a direct screen recording, while Dan himself uploaded an unedited edition, showing the video being performed on the in-building projection.
* Unlike other entries of the series, the video was filmed using a [[resource pack]], even while at the lab.
** Similarly, Trayaurus isn't given subtitles, due to the video being acted out live. Instead, Dan triggers a mumble sound effect and repeats what he's meant to be saying.
* The character Ken appears to be a reference to the ''{{Wikipedia|Street Fighter}}'' video game franchise, after the character {{Wikipedia|Ken Masters}}. However, his appearance more closely resembles the series protagonist {{Wikipedia|Ryu (Street Fighter)|Ryu}}, who is uncoincidentally a very close friend of Ken's.
** Both characters would receive an official ''Minecraft'' appearance in ''[[The World Warrior]]'' [[skin pack]].

== Gallery ==
{{Empty section}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox event|segments}}

[[Category:MINECON]]
[[Category:Collaborations]]
[[Category:Videos]]
[[Category:Episodes]]