{{Infobox person
|title          = Helen Zbihlyj
|image          = Helen1.jpg
|imagesize      = 
|real_name      = Helen Zbihlyj
|date_of_birth  = {{Birth date and age|1978|5|30}}<ref>[[Special:Diff/1567110|Wiki edit #1567110]] by HelenAngel</ref>
|occupation     = Community Manager
|nationality    = American
|languages      = 
|website        = [https://twitch.tv/HelenAngel HelenAngel Twitch channel]
|known_for      = [https://twitch.com/Minecraft Official ''Minecraft'' livestreams]
|also_known_as  = HelenAngel
|reddit         = HelenAngel
|twitter        = HelenAngel
|bluesky        = helenangel.bsky.social
|instagram      = helenangel_official
|wiki_name      = HelenAngel
|bug_tracker    = HelenAngel
|minecraft_names = HelenAngel (Java), Helen (Bedrock)
}}

'''Helen Zbihlyj''', also known as '''HelenAngel''', is a former community manager for {{MC}} at [[Mojang Studios]], the first person in the company with that title. She is now the Narrative Writer & Director of Community at ReWrite Media, [[Jigarbov Productions]], & Syclone Studios.<ref name="talk comment">[[Special:Diff/1894112|Wiki edit #1894112]] by HelenAngel</ref>

== Personal life ==

Helen graduated from {{wikipedia|Germantown High School (Tennessee)|Germantown High School}}. There she was heavily involved in the [https://www.ppp.org/ award-winning theatre & television] program.<ref name="talk comment"/>

She graduated from [https://www.memphis.edu the University of Memphis] with a BA in psychology.<ref name="talk comment"/>

Her son, Nicholas, was born in November of 2000. She married Sneeza, the creator of TF2 Outpost, in June 2016. They divorced in 2021.<ref name="talk comment"/> In October 2024, she married Wes Pesetti, a developer on Bedrock at Mojang.

== Professional life ==

In the ''Minecraft'' community, Helen started as an active player and an occasional Minecraft Wiki contributor.

She joined Xbox Game Studios in November 2013 as Community Manager for the Windows 8 games portfolio, including titles such as ''Microsoft Solitaire Collection'', ''Microsoft Bingo'', ''Disney Fairies: Hidden Treasures'', and ''Hexic''. She assisted with community management of ''Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition'' and later community management of the rest of the ''Minecraft: Console Edition'' platforms.<ref>{{citation|url=https://www.mobygames.com/developer/sheet/view/developerId,621974/|title=Developer Profile Helen Casper|website=MobyGames|date=March 27, 2021}}</ref>

She officially joined Mojang Studios full-time in July 2015 to provide community management for the Minecraft franchise.<ref name="talk comment"/>

She is no longer part of Mojang starting August 27, 2020.<ref>{{tweet|HelenAngel|1299100396170878976|I have some incredibly exciting news that I have been dying to share with all of you! 🥳<br>I'm no longer with Mojang Studios. I have decided it's time I FINALLY pursue something that I have been passionate about for over 10 years: directly helping Minecraft communities! 💜 (1/2)|August 27, 2020}}<br>{{tweet|HelenAngel|1299100489359872000|I'll be working with @RazzleberriesAB, Marketplace Partners, Java server owners, YouTubers/livestreamers, content creators, and of course our wonderful competitive community. I will be YOUR #1 advocate, cheerleader, and mentor. I'll have some more exciting news later! (2/2)|August 27, 2020}}</ref> She continues to work with the Minecraft community through her roles as Narrative Writer & Director of Community at ReWrite Media, [[Jigarbov Productions]], & Syclone Studios, three Minecraft Marketplace Partner studios.<ref>{{citation|url=https://www.linkedin.com/in/helenangel|title=Helen Zbihlyj|website=LinkedIn|date=March 27, 2021}}</ref>

As a narrative/dialogue writer, she worked on the following Minecraft Education Edition maps (all are free content):

* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/latinexplorers-a-hispanic-heritage-journey LatinExplorers 1: A Hispanic Heritage Journey]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/latinexplorers-2-a-hispanic-heritage-journey LatinExplorers 2: A Hispanic Heritage Journey]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/artemis-return-to-the-moon Artemis: Return to the Moon]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/buildability BuildAbility]
* Minecraft: Extreme Heat Series
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/james-webb-space-telescope-challenge James Webb Space Telescope Challenge]
* Build Your Joy: Inside Out 2
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/fantastic-fairgrounds Fantastic Fairgrounds]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/cyber-fundamentals-2-the-interceptors Cyber Fundamentals 2: The Interceptors]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/cyber-fundamentals-3-cloud-champions Cyber Fundamentals 3: Cloud Champions]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/resources/hour-code-2023 Minecraft Hour of Code 2023: Generation AI]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/resources/hour-code-2024 Minecraft Hour of Code 2024: The Show Must Go On]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/data-explorers Data Explorers]
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/lessons/lessons-in-good-trouble Lessons in Good Trouble] (2025 re-release)
* [https://education.minecraft.net/en-us/challenges/corny-code-caper Corny Code Caper]

As a narrative/dialogue writer, she worked on the following Minecraft Bedrock content (notes whether the content is free or paid in the Minecraft Marketplace):

* Friend Maker by Jigarbov Productions (paid)
* Computers Add-On by Jigarbov Productions (paid)
* [https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=9b8eb62e-de88-41f5-b759-188e9d538d42 Marketplace Creator Tycoon] by Jigarbov Productions (free)
* [[Jurassic World Adventures]] by Syclone Studios (paid)
* [[Transformers|Minecraft Transformers DLC]] by Syclone Studios (paid)
* [[Fantastic Fairgrounds]] by Minecraft (free)
* [https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=7974c137-4239-4d5c-94d1-7aa5ed9d7285 Heatwave Survival] by Pathway Studios (free)
* Days Survived Counter Add-On by Syclone Studios (free)
* [https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=c446c495-dc61-4e64-bdc0-681f93ea84c6 Data Explorers] by Pathway Studios (free)
* [[LatinExplorers]] by Minecraft (free)
* [[LatinExplorers 2]] by Minecraft (free)
* [[Artemis: Rocket Build]] by Minecraft (free)

As a copyeditor, she worked on the following Minecraft Bedrock content by Jigarbov Productions (notes whether the content is free or paid in the Minecraft Marketplace):

* [[Tetris Add-On|Minecraft x Tetris Add-On]] (paid)
* [[Tetris (map)|Tetris DLC]] (paid)
* [[Poisonous Potato Add-On]] (free)
* [https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=d8a20ca0-7c7d-4ce0-bfdb-82606751db49 ALL THE WOOL Add-On] (free)
* DetectOre Add-On (paid)
* Papercraft Mob Stickers Add-On (paid)
* Computers Add-On (paid)
* Coloring Artist (paid)
* Friend Maker (paid)
* [https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=9b8eb62e-de88-41f5-b759-188e9d538d42 Marketplace Creator Tycoon] (free)
* Land of Mutants (paid)
* Robot Battle Arena (paid)
* [https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/marketplace/pdp?id=5cca20f3-5787-4256-b404-f4875376f061 Simburbia] (free)
* Battle Mutants Add-On (paid)
As a copyeditor, she worked on the following Minecraft Bedrock content:

*Gauntlets Boss Expansion by Syclone Studios (paid)
*Mob Dragons by Syclone Studios (paid)

== Trivia ==
*Helen worked with [[Corey Clemans]] previously when they were both on the {{w|Xbox Game Studios}} Community Team.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox employees|former}}

[[es:Helen Zbihlyj]]
[[fr:Helen Zbihlyj]]
[[pl:Helen Zbihlyj]]
[[pt:Helen Zbihlyj]]
[[zh:Helen Zbihlyj]]