{{redirect|How did we get here?|the advancement with the same name|How Did We Get Here?}}
{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| title = How did we get here?
| image = White Carpet.png
| renewable = Yes (if the item displayed is renewable)
| stackable = No
| tool = Any
| light = No
| transparent = Yes
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = No
| rarity = common
| extratext = View [[How did we get here? (block)/Display|all renders]]
}}
'''How did we get here?''' is a joke [[block]] introduced in [[22w13oneBlockAtATime]]. This block takes the place of all items in 22w13oneBlockAtATime, as the inventory (and by extension, items) are disabled in that version. It uses a [[block state]] to display the proper item.

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
A ''how did we get here?'' block can be broken with any tool, but does not drop. It goes directly to the [[player]]'s hand like any other block in this version.

=== Post-generation ===
Whenever an item would be otherwise dropped on the ground, a ''How did we get here?'' block spawns instead, displaying the item that it replaced and represents.

They are also spawned when an item is crafted with a [[crafting table]].

==== Debug mode ====
Every item that can be displayed by ''How did we get here?'' blocks are seen in [[debug mode]], as well as their waterlogged versions.

== Usage ==
A ''How did we get here?'' block can be used as the item it displays and can be thrown by the [[player]] like any other block. 

* It increases player's attack damage, if it displays a sword or axe.
* It increases player's block breaking speed, if it displays the corresponding tool.
* It can be thrown onto a player to equip, if it displays a piece of armor.<!-- Does this unequip the previous armor in that armor slot if there is already armor in that slot? -->
* It can be thrown on a [[crafting table]] to craft the appropriate items.
** Or a crafting table can be thrown onto it, and the items are crafted together if possible.
** ''More information: {{Slink|Java Edition 22w13oneBlockAtATime|Items}}.''

They are also [[waterlog]]gable.

== Sounds ==
{{Sound table/Block/Stone/JE}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|showforms=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=How did we get here?
|spritetype=block
|nameid=generic_item_block
|foot=1}}

=== Block states ===
{{see also|Block states}}

{{bst|item|0|0,1,2,...,1104|The number display the item ID on it. See ''[[How did we get here? (block)/Display]]''.}}
{{bst|waterlogged|false|false,true|Whether or not there's water in the same place as this ''how did we get here?'' block.|foot=1}}

=== Display ===
{{Main|How did we get here? (block)/Display}}
They have an <code>item</code> block state that specifies the internal ID of the item to display with (0-1104).

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Trivia ==
* Although they have an item form, the inventory form of ''How did we get here?'' blocks are inaccessible without hacks because the inventory in this version is also inaccessible.
* The ordering of the blocks and items in the <code>item</code> block state roughly resembles the ordering of the [[Java Edition pre-flattening data values|numeral IDs of block and items prior to the flattening]].

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}{{Navbox jokes|22w13}}

[[Category:Joke features]]
[[Category:Joke blocks]]

[[fr:How did we get here? (Bloc)]]
[[pt:A que ponto chegamos? (bloco)]]
[[ja:How did we get here? (ブロック)]]
[[zh:为什么会变成这样呢？（方块）]]