{{Disambiguation}}
'''Ice''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
=== Blocks ===
* {{BlockLink|Ice}}, a translucent block that generates naturally on frozen rivers and yields a water source when melted.
* {{BlockLink|Frosted Ice}}, a variant of ice that generates temporarily with the [[Frost Walker]] enchantment.
* {{BlockLink|Packed Ice}}, an opaque variant of ice that does not melt and generates in frozen peaks and ice spikes biomes, as well as in icebergs.
* {{BlockLink|Blue Ice}}, an ice variant that generates in icebergs and is more slippery than ice and packed ice.

=== Item ===
* {{ItemLink|Ice Bomb}}, ''Minecraft Education'' item used to freeze water into ice.

=== Features ===
* {{EnvLink|Iceberg}}, feature that generates on frozen oceans that consists of snow, packed ice and blue ice.
* {{EnvLink|Ice Spike}}, feature that consists of ice and packed ice.
* {{EnvLink|Ice Patch}}, feature that generates in Ice Spikes biome.
* {{EnvLink|Pile|Ice Pile}}, a feature that generates only in villages.

=== Biomes ===
* {{BiomeLink|Ice Spikes}}, snowy plains biome variant that contains many ice spikes.
* {{BiomeLink|Ice Desert}}, deleted biome {{in|JE}}.

=== Tag ===
* <code>minecraft:ice</code>, a [[tag]] that includes all ice block variants.

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==
* {{DuEntityLink|Icy Creeper}}, a variant of creeper in the {{MCD|Creeping Winter}} DLC that freezes mobs in its blast radius.
* {{DuEntityLink|Frozen Zombie}}, a variant of zombie in the {{MCD|Creeping Winter}} DLC that freezes hit targets.
* {{DuEntityLink|Iceologer}}, an illager in the {{MCD|Creeping Winter}} DLC able to summon falling ice chunks above the player's head.
** {{DuEntityLink|Ice Chunk}}, an entity sumomned by an iceologer.

=== Item ===
* {{DuItemLink|Ice Wand}}, an artifact that can summon an ice block that crushes and stuns mobs.

=== Locations ===
* [[MCD:Ice Cabin|Ice Cabin]], an optional sub dungeon within the secret mission Lost Settlement.
** {{MCD|Ice Cabin Backroom}}, a part of the Ice Cabin optional sub dungeon
* [[MCD:Ice Caves|Ice Caves]], an optional sub dungeon within the secret mission Lost Settlement.
* [[MCD:Ice Dungeon|Ice Dungeon]], an optional sub dungeon within the secret mission Lost Settlement.

== ''Minecraft Legends'' ==
* {{LeStructureLink|Frost Tower}}, a structure that freezes enemies with large blocks of ice.
* {{LeStructureLink|Ice Trap}}, a structure that freezes enemies when they walk over it.

== ''Minecraft Story Mode'' ==
* {{SMEntityLink|Icy Ender Creeper}}, hostile mobs that are a hybrid of [[Story Mode:Enderman|endermen]] and [[Story Mode:Creeper|creepers]].
* {{SMEntityLink|Icy Golem}}, an icy cold golem variant
* {{SMEntityLink|Icy Spider}}, an icy variant of the [[Story Mode:Spider|spider]].
* {{SMEntityLink|Larger Icy Golem}}, a boss variant of the icy golem.
* {{SMAreaLink|Icy Palace of Despair}}, a structure built by [[Story Mode:Romeo|Romeo]].

== ''Minecraft Earth'' ==
* {{BlockLink|Ice|link=MCE:Ice}}, a [[Earth:Item|block]] found in many levels.
* {{BlockLink|Packed Ice|link=MCE:Packed Ice}}, Ditto.

== Miscellaneous ==

* [[Ice Cube Claims Adjuster]], a series of ads promoting the [[Claims Adjuster Add-On]]
* {{CharacterLink|Ice Cube}}, the protagonist of the ads, portrayed by [[O'Shea Jackson Sr.]]
* {{AreaLink|Ice Cubicle}}, the setting of the ads
* {{AreaLink|The Ice Cube}}, a location in [[Minecraft: The Mountain|''Minecraft: The Mountain'']] and its [[Minecraft: The Mountain (map)|tie-in world]]

[[de:Eis (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[fr:Glace (homonymie)]]
[[ja:氷 (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[ko:얼음 (동음이의)]]
[[lzh:冰（辨異）]]
[[pt:Gelo (desambiguação)]]
[[ru:Лёд (значения)]]
[[th:น้ำแข็ง (แก้ความกำกวม)]]
[[uk:Лід (значення)]]
[[zh:冰（消歧义）]]