{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = V
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Trident|link=Trident}}
| weight = 2
| incompat =
* [[Sharpness]]<ref group="note" name="bookincompatible">In Survival, this incompatibility is only relevant with [[enchanted book]]s, as no enchantable item is compatible with both of these enchantments.</ref>
* [[Smite]]<ref group="note" name="bookincompatible" />
* [[Bane of Arthropods]]<ref group="note" name="bookincompatible" />
* [[Density]]<ref group="note" name="bookincompatible" />
* [[Breach]]<ref group="note" name="bookincompatible" />
* [[Cleaving]]<ref group="note" name="bookincompatible" />
}}
'''Impaling''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[trident]]s that substantially increases damage against [[aquatic]] mobs,{{Only|je|short=1}} or increases damage against entities in water or rain.{{Only|be|short=1}}

== Obtaining ==
Impaling can be obtained from [[enchanting table]]s, drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
Each level of Impaling adds 2.5 ({{hp|2|notag=1}} × {{frac|1|1|4}}) extra damage per hit. In {{BE}}, the values are rounded down to the nearest whole number. This applies both to the trident projectile and in melee combat.

{{IN|java}}, only [[aquatic mobs]] receive the extra damage. Aquatic mobs include [[axolotl]]s, [[dolphin]]s, [[guardian]]s, [[elder guardian]]s, [[nautilus]]es, [[zombie nautilus]]es, [[squid]], [[glow squid]], [[tadpole]]s, [[turtle]]s, and [[fish|all variants of fish]], but not [[drowned]],<ref>{{bug|MC-128249|||WAI}}</ref> as drowned are classified purely as undead mobs and not underwater mobs. A thrown trident with Impaling I kills the majority of these mobs in one hit (≤10 HP), whereas an Impaling III trident is needed to kill a nautilus or zombie nautilus in one hit (15 HP) or a turtle or guardian in two hits (30 HP), and an Impaling V trident is needed to kill an elder guardian in four hits (80 HP).

{{IN|bedrock}}, the damage applies to ''all'' mobs and players when in contact with water: underwater, in flowing water, and in rain.<ref>{{bug|MCPE-34025}}</ref>

In the [[Java Edition Combat Test]]s, Impaling has both of these effects.

=== Damage per hit ===
These tables detail how much damage is done per attack based on the level of enchantment used, assuming the target is not wearing armor and the attack is fully charged.{{only|java}} While both Java Edition and Bedrock Edition add {{hp|2.5}} per level, Bedrock Edition rounds down to the nearest whole number which makes Impaling I, Impaling III, and Impaling V weaker than Java Edition.

{| class="wikitable"
|+Impaling extra damage
!Edition
!I
!II
!III
!IV
!V
|-
|{{IN|java}}
|{{hp|2.5}}
|{{hp|5}}
|{{hp|7.5}}
|{{hp|10}}
|{{hp|12.5}}
|-
|{{IN|bedrock}}
|{{hp|2}}
|{{hp|5}}
|{{hp|7}}
|{{hp|10}}
|{{hp|12}}
|}

==== ''Java Edition'' ====
{| class="wikitable"
!Type!!Base damage!!Impaling I!!Impaling II!!Impaling III!!Impaling IV!!Impaling V
|-
|{{ItemSprite|Trident}} Melee||{{hp|9}}||{{hp|11.5}}||{{hp|14}}||{{hp|16.5}}||{{hp|19}}||{{hp|21.5}}
|-
|{{ItemSprite|Trident}} Melee (critical)||{{hp|13.5}}||{{hp|16}}||{{hp|18.5}}||{{hp|21}}||{{hp|23.5}}||{{hp|26}}
|-
|{{ItemSprite|Trident}} Ranged||{{hp|8}}||{{hp|10.5}}||{{hp|13}}||{{hp|15.5}}||{{hp|18}}||{{hp|20.5}}
|}

==== ''Bedrock Edition'' ====
{| class="wikitable"
!Type!!Base damage!!Impaling I!!Impaling II!!Impaling III!!Impaling IV!!Impaling V
|-
|{{ItemSprite|Trident}} Melee||{{hp|9}}||{{hp|11}}||{{hp|14}}||{{hp|16}}||{{hp|19}}||{{hp|21}}
|-
|{{ItemSprite|Trident}} Melee (critical)||{{hp|13.5}}||{{hp|16.5}}||{{hp|21}}||{{hp|24}}||{{hp|28.5}}||{{hp|31.5}}
|-
|{{ItemSprite|Trident}} Ranged||{{hp|8}}||{{hp|10}}||{{hp|13}}||{{hp|15}}||{{hp|18}}||{{hp|20}}
|}

=== Specific cases ===
If Impaling is applied to a [[bow]] by use of [[command]]s or an [[anvil]] in Creative, the enchantment affects the weapon's [[arrow]]s. If Impaling is applied to a [[crossbow]] by use of commands or an anvil in Creative, the enchantment affects weapon's arrows but not its [[firework rocket]]s.

==Incompatibilities==
Impaling is incompatible with [[Sharpness]], [[Smite]], [[Bane of Arthropods]], [[Density]], [[Breach]], and [[Cleaving]]{{upcoming|Java Combat Tests|nocat=1}}, but in Survival these incompatibilities can only be encountered with [[enchanted book]]s, as no weapon types have access to both Impaling and one of the other aforementioned enchantments. If [[command]]s are used to have two or more of these enchantments on the same item, their effects stack.{{only|java}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=impaling
|displayname=Impaling
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=impaling
|displayname=Impaling
|id=29
|translationkey=enchantment.tridentImpaling
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.13|dev=18w07a|Along with the addition of [[trident]]s, the Impaling enchantment has now been added.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.17|dev=20w51a|Impaling now deals extra damage to the [[axolotl]]s.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.2|dev=24w33a|[[Drowned]] can now use the Impaling enchantment.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.2.13|dev=beta 1.2.13.8|exp=Experimental Gameplay|Added the Impaling enchantment as part of [[Experimental Gameplay]], which is able to be applied to the brand-new tridents.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.4.0|dev=beta 1.2.14.2|The Impaling enchantment has now been fully implemented.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU69|ps3=1.76|psvita=1.76|ps4=1.76|wiiu=Patch 38|Along with the addition of tridents, the Impaling enchantment can now be applied to them.}}
}}

=== ''Java Edition Combat Tests'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|combat java}}
|{{HistoryLine||4|Impaling now deals extra [[damage]] to all [[mob]]s in [[water]] or [[rain]], in addition to its existing effect against [[aquatic]] mobs.}}
|{{HistoryLine||8|Impaling is now calculated before adding [[critical hit]] and [[potion effect]] damage, increasing its effectiveness.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|melee-ranged}}

[[de:Harpune]]
[[es:Empalamiento]]
[[fr:Empalement]]
[[ja:水生特効]]
[[pt:Empalamento]]
[[th:ทิ่มแทง]]
[[uk:Протикання]]
[[zh:穿刺]]