{{about| |the enchantment in {{MCD}}|MCD:Infinity|other uses|Infinite}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = I
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Bow|link=Bow}}
| weight = 1
| incompat = [[Mending]]
}}
'''Infinity''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[bow]]s that prevents consumption of [[arrow]]s, except for [[spectral arrow]]s or [[tipped arrow]]s.

== Obtaining ==
Infinity can be obtained from [[enchanting table]]s, drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]]{{only|bedrock}}, books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s<ref>If [[Villager Trade Rebalance]] is turned on, only desert librarian villagers can trade this enchantment.</ref>, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
A [[bow]] enchanted with Infinity can be used to shoot unlimited arrows as long as the player's inventory contains at least one arrow. Fired arrows cannot be retrieved except in Creative mode (in which they are erased instead of added to the player's inventory).

Infinity has no effect on [[Tipped Arrow|tipped]] and [[spectral arrow]]s; they are still consumed as usual.

=== Specific cases ===
If Infinity is applied to a [[crossbow]] by use of [[command]]s or an [[anvil]] in Creative, the enchantment functions when firing arrows but not when firing [[firework rocket]]s. If Infinity is applied to a [[trident]] by use of commands or an anvil in Creative, the enchantment does not function.

== Incompatibilities ==
[[Mending]] and Infinity are mutually exclusive. However, if combined with [[commands]], both enchantments function as normal.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=infinity
|displayname=Infinity
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=infinity
|displayname=Infinity
|id=22
|translationkey=enchantment.arrowInfinite
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.1|dev=release|Added Infinity.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9|dev=15w42a|Infinity no longer displays as "Infinity I".}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.11.1|dev=16w50a|Infinity and [[Mending]] are now mutually exclusive but currently only if mending is in the first slot of the anvil.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=release|Infinity and Mending are now always mutually exclusive, regardless of the order in the anvil UI.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w09a|Infinity now works on [[crossbow]]s if placed onto the weapon using data manipulation or a change to the <code>enchantable/*</code> tags.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added the Infinity enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.30|dev=Preview 1.21.30.22|Infinity no longer displays as "Infinity I".}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added the Infinity enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU54|xbone=CU44|ps3=1.52|psvita=1.52|ps4=1.52|wiiu=Patch 24|switch=1.0.4|Infinity and [[Mending]] are now mutually exclusive.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Infinity.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{Issue list|-SNBT}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|ranged}}

[[de:Unendlichkeit]]
[[es:Infinidad]]
[[fr:Infinité]]
[[ja:無限]]
[[pt:Infinidade]]
[[ru:Бесконечность]]
[[th:ไม่จำกัด]]
[[zh:无限]]