{{Work in progress}}
{{exclusive|java}}
{{Infobox entity
| image = Blank.png
| health = None
| behavior = None
| size = Customizable
}}
'''Interaction''' entities are a technical [[entity]], useful for map or data pack creators to see who the last player to click on a certain spot is. They can only be created with the {{cmd|summon}} or {{cmd|execute summon}} commands.
Interaction entities are invisible, invincible and of a custom size. Their [[bounding box]] can be viewed via the {{key|F3}} + {{key|B}} debug shortcut.

== Behavior ==
Interaction entities record the [[UUID]] of the last player that left-clicked and right-clicked them, and the time at which the interaction happened. If <code>response</code> is set to true, left-clicking an interaction entity plays a punching sound, and right-clicking it makes the player's arm swing.

== Usage ==
You can check information on who last left-clicked and right-clicked on the interaction entity with the {{cmd|data get entity}} command. This information can be useful in datapack and map creation. You can also change their size to match the area you want to be checked.

=== Advancement triggers ===
* Interacting with (right-clicking) an interaction entity triggers <code>[[Custom advancement#minecraft:player_interacted_with_entity|player_interacted_with_entity]]</code>.
* Attacking (left-clicking) an interaction entity triggers <code>[[Custom advancement#minecraft:player_hurt_entity|player_hurt_entity]]</code>.

=== Commands ===
The interaction entity targets the player who last interacted with it. That makes the following possible:
* {{cmd|execute on attacker}} execute as the last player who attacked (left-clicked) the entity.
* {{cmd|execute on target}} execute as the last player who interacted with (right-clicked) the entity.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|firstcolumnname=Entity
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Interaction
|nameid=interaction
|translationkey=entity.minecraft.interaction
|spritetype=block
|spritename=air
|foot=1
}}

=== Entity data ===
{{see also|Entity format}}

Interaction entities have entity data associated with them that contain various properties of the [[entity]].

<section begin="entity data"/><div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}} Entity data
** {{nbt inherit/entity}}
** {{nbt|float|width}}: The width of the entity's bounding box. Defaults to 1.
** {{nbt|float|height}}: The height of the entity's bounding box. Defaults to 1.
** {{nbt|byte|response}}: 1 or 0 (true/false). Specifies whether an interaction should trigger a response (hand animation). Defaults to 0 (false).
** {{nbt|compound|attack}}: The last attack (left click) to hit the entity.
*** {{nbt|int array|player}}: The UUID of the player that attacked the entity. The 128-bit UUID is stored as four 32-bit integers, ordered from most to least significant.
*** {{nbt|long|timestamp}}: When the attack took place.
** {{nbt|compound|interaction}}: The last interaction (right click) to hit the entity.
*** {{nbt|int array|player}}: The UUID of the player that interacted with the entity. The 128-bit UUID is stored as four 32-bit integers, ordered from most to least significant.
*** {{nbt|long|timestamp}}: When the interaction took place.
</div><section end="entity data"/>

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.19.4|dev=23w07a|Added interaction entities.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox entities|Other}}

[[de:Interaktionsobjekt]]
[[fr:Interaction]]
[[ja:操作記録エンティティ]]
[[lzh:交互]]
[[pt:Entidade-interação]]
[[zh:交互实体]]
[[ru:Взаимодействие]]