{{outdated|In [[Java Edition 1.20.5]], this format has been replaced with the [[data component format]].|edition=java}}
<div class="treeview"><onlyinclude>
** {{nbt|compound|filtered_pages}}: Only in [[Realms]]. The pages shown to players with the profanity filter turned on instead of some of the regular pages. This compound is automatically given a tag named after the page number and set to {{code|""}} when a player with the profanity filter turned ''off'' closes or signs a book with that specific page containing one or more blocked words, so players with the filter ''on'' cannot see the blocked words. If a player with the filter ''on'' tries to use blocked words in one or more of the pages, this compound is not given any new tags and the specific page(s) in {{nbt|list|pages}} are instead set to {{code|""}}, which makes the page(s) render completely blank. If multiple pages have been edited before the book is closed, only the pages containing blocked words are blanked.
** {{nbt|string|filtered_title}}: Only in [[Realms]]. The title shown to players with the profanity filter turned on instead of the regular title. This tag is automatically set to {{code|""}} when a player with the profanity filter turned ''off'' signs a book with a title containing one or more blocked words, so players with the filter ''on'' cannot see the blocked words. If a player with the filter ''on'' tries to use blocked words in the title, this tag is not added and the {{nbt|string|title}} tag is instead set to {{code|""}}, which makes the title render as "Written Book", as if it weren't named.
** {{nbt|byte|resolved}}: Optional. Created and set to 1 when the book (or a book from the stack) is opened for the first time after being created. Used to determine whether to [[Text component format#Component resolution|resolve advanced components]] within JSON, because their values become fixed at that point.
** {{nbt|int|generation}}: Optional. The copy tier of the book. 0 = original, 1 = copy of original, 2 = copy of copy, 3 = tattered. If the value is greater than 1, the book cannot be copied. Does not exist for original books. If this tag is missing, it is assumed the book is an original. 'Tattered' is unused in normal gameplay, and functions identically to the 'copy of copy' tier. 
** {{nbt|string|author}}: The author of the written book.
** {{nbt|string|title}}: The title of the written book. Lower priority than the item name set by [[Item format/Display Properties|{{code|tag.display.Name}}]]. Cannot be used to open locked containers.
** {{nbt|list|pages}}: The list of pages in the book.
*** {{nbt|string}}: A single page in the book. Each page is a serialized [[Raw JSON text format#Java Edition|JSON text]].
</onlyinclude></div><noinclude>
[[Category:Top-level data pages]]
[[fr:Format d'objet/Livre écrit]]
[[ja:アイテムフォーマット/1.20.5以前/Written Books]]
[[zh:物品格式/成书]]
</noinclude>