{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 12w37a
|image=Jebpig.png
|image2=Java Edition 12w37a.png
|edition=java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.4.2
|date=September 13, 2012
|clientdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.4/pre/12w37a.jar Client] ([https://ia801403.us.archive.org/11/items/Minecraft-JSONs/12w37a.json .json])
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w37a.jar Server]
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w37a.exe .exe]
[[Category:Versions using legacy download site]]
|prevparent=1.3.2
|prev=12w36a
|next=12w38a
|nextparent=1.4.4
}}<onlyinclude>

'''12w37a''' is the fifth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.4.2]], released on September 13, 2012,<ref>{{Citation|url=http://www.mojang.com/2012/09/minecraft-snapshot-12w37a|title=Minecraft Snapshot 12w37a|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120913170254/http://www.mojang.com/2012/09/minecraft-snapshot-12w37a/|archive-time=November 12, 2020 00:53:57}}</ref> which adds pumpkin pies, {{cmd|/clear}} command and changes the [[superflat]] GUI.

== Additions ==

=== Items ===
'''[[Pumpkin pie]]'''
* Crafted from pumpkin, egg, and sugar.
* Restores {{hunger|8}} [[hunger]] and 4.8 [[saturation]].

=== Command format ===
'''<code>/clear</code> '''
* Empties the inventory.

=== General ===
'''World selection menu'''
* Added "Re-create" option.
** Allows players to create a new world as a copy of an existing save, defaulting all of the world options and the world seed to match the original.

'''[[Superflat]] '''
* New customization GUI:
** Comes with 7 presets: "Classic Flat", "Tunnelers' Dream", "Water World", "Overworld", "Snowy Kingdom", "Bottomless Pit" (broken),<ref>{{tweet|dinnerbone|246241126711975937}}</ref> and "Desert".
** Custom starts off with "Classic Flat" with three options: "Add Layer", "Edit Layer", and "Remove Layer". Adding and editing are not yet included.
*** Players can customize superflat without add/edit layer option using the "seed" in the preset list.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Button]]s'''
* Time of the redstone signal extended from 9 to 12 redstone ticks.

'''[[Head]]s'''
* Now correctly centered.
* Can now be customized to be player heads using an NBT.

=== Items ===
'''[[Apple]]s, [[bread]], [[cooked chicken]], [[cooked porkchop]], [[Nether star]]s, [[raw beef]], [[raw chicken]], [[raw porkchop]], [[steak]]'''
* No longer have a dark outline on their texture.

'''[[Armor]]'''
* Leather armor now has a non-dyed layer.

'''[[Baked potato]]es'''
* Removed the steam pixels above the main texture.

'''[[Carrot]]s'''
* "Carrots" renamed to "Carrot".
** Sprite changed to match singular title.

'''[[Golden carrot]]s'''
* Sprite changed to match new carrot sprite.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Hostile mobs are now a little bit more fearless in Hard difficulty.
** Mobs risk taking fall damage to reach the player, provided fall is not deadly for them.

'''[[Pig]]s'''
* Are now able to jump when players ride on them.
** Cease to move when ridden in water.

'''[[Wither]]'''
* Creates an explosion around itself once it is done regenerating from spawning.
* Now randomly shoots slow blue-colored versions of wither skull projectiles when idle.

'''[[Wither skeleton]]s'''
* Increased spawning rate inside [[Nether fortress]]es.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Fishing]]'''
* Now gives the player experience.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.4.2 development versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition development versions released in 2012]]

[[de:12w37a]]
[[es:Java Edition 12w37a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 12w37a]]
[[it:Java Edition 12w37a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 12w37a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 12w37a]]
[[nl:12w37a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 12w37a]]
[[ru:12w37a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:12w37a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版12w37a]]