{{Dangerous version|The game crashes when a [[Breeze]] or [[Warden]] is rendered in any way.|type=crash|edition=java|version=development}}{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 25w09a
|image=25w09a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 25w09a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=February 26, 2025
|jsonhash=c5f008cb23e91680ad24c67f66ddb612d7bcd513
|clienthash=393baee4824f5329086d75c808d32a3e17dc7a8e
|clientmap=349aaa08ec8620847cb98d98d0b90f92173dfaf1
|serverhash=baab122c7652b302621f7befd5be40abef9b9b7c
|servermap=75e486a6ab66c511244448ccbd80534d169c9bea
|parent=1.21.5
|prevparent=1.21.4
|prev=25w08a
|next=25w09b
|nextparent=1.21.6
}}<onlyinclude>

'''25w09a''' is the eighth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.21.5]], released on February 26, 2025, which adds fallen trees for parity with {{BE}}, updates firefly bushes to generate in more biomes and fixes bugs.<ref>{{snap|25w09a|id=a|February 26, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==

=== World generation ===
'''[[Fallen tree]]'''
* Fallen trees are a new decorative variant of trees.
* Fallen trees come in four different wood type variants:
** [[Oak]]
** [[Spruce]]
** [[Birch]]
** [[Jungle tree|Jungle]]
* Birch fallen trees can come in a shorter version or a longer version.
* Some fallen trees can be decorated with [[mushroom]] or [[vines]].
* Fallen trees can be found in all biomes where their standing tree variant grow, except the following:
** {{BiomeLink|Meadow}}
** {{BiomeLink|Bamboo Jungle}}
** {{BiomeLink|River}}
** {{BiomeLink|Grove}}
** {{BiomeLink|Flower Forest}}
*** Has fallen birch trees but not fallen oak trees.

== Changes ==

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dead bush]]'''
* Can now be placed on [[farmland]].

'''[[Firefly bush]]'''
* The Firefly Bush can now generate near water in [[mangrove swamp]]s and all types of [[badlands]] (very rarely), like other biomes with water.

'''[[Leaf litter]]'''
* Leaf Litter is now replaceable by other blocks.

'''[[Short dry grass]]''' and '''[[tall dry grass]]'''
* Are now randomly offset within the block they are on.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|data}}'''
* Can now create and modify heterogeneous lists transparently.
* Can no longer traverse paths with an empty key (e.g. {{cmd|data get ... foo.''.bar''}})

=== General ===
'''[[Block entity format]]'''
* <code>campfire</code>
** The <code>CookingTimes</code> and <code>CookingTotalTimes</code> fields will no longer be preserved when removed.
* <code>chiseled_bookshelf</code>
** The <code>last_interacted_slot</code> field now defaults to <code>-1</code> if not specified.
* <code>hopper</code>
** The <code>TransferCooldown</code> field now default to <code>-1</code> if not specified.
* <code>jigsaw</code>
** The <code>name</code>, <code>target</code>, and <code>pool</code> fields now default to <code>minecraft:empty</code> if not specified.
** The <code>final_state</code> field now defaults to <code>minecraft:air</code> if not specified.
* <code>sculk_shrieker</code> 
** The <code>warning_level</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
* <code>structure_block</code>
** The <code>ignoreEntities</code> and showboundingbox fields now default to <code>true</code> if not specified.
** The <code>posY</code> field now defaults to 1 if not specified.

'''[[Data pack]]'''
*The [[pack format]] version is now <code>69</code>.
* New command line argument <code>--renderDebugLabels</code> is available for the client.
** Adds debug labels to relevant OpenGL objects, making debugging rendering easier for developers.

'''[[Entity format]]'''
* The <code>FallFlying</code> field will no longer be preserved if removed.
** The <code>Health</code> and <code>Air</code> fields now default to their respective maximum value if not specified.
* <code>area_effect_cloud</code>
** The <code>Duration</code> field now defaults to <code>-1</code> if not specified.
** If the <code>Duration</code> field is <code>-1</code>, the Area Effect Cloud will never run out.
** This means that an Area Effect Cloud summoned with no duration specified will no longer immediately disappear.
* <code>creeper</code>
** The <code>Fuse</code> field now defaults to <code>30</code> if not specified.
** The <code>ExplosionRadius</code> field now defaults to <code>3</code> if not specified.
* <code>dolphin</code>
** The <code>Moistness</code> field now defaults to <code>2400</code> if not specified.
* <code>ender_dragon</code>
** The <code>DragonDeathTime</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
* <code>falling_block</code>
** The <code>BlockState</code> field can now be <code>air</code> (will despawn immediately) - if otherwise not specified or invalid, defaults to <code>sand</code>.
** The <code>HurtEntities</code> field now defaults to <code>false</code> if not specified (or <code>true</code> if <code>BlockState</code> is <code>anvil</code>).
** The <code>FallHurtAmount</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
** The <code>FallHurtMax</code> field now defaults to <code>40</code> if not specified.
** The <code>DropItem</code> field now defaults to <code>true</code> if not specified.
** The <code>TileEntityData</code> field will no longer be preserved if removed.
* <code>firework_rocket</code>
** The <code>ShotAtAngle</code> field now defaults to false if not specified.
* <code>fox</code>
** The <code>Trusted</code> field now defaults to empty if not specified (and will no longer be merged with the previous state if modified by {{cmd|data}}).
* <code>ghast</code>
** The <code>ExplosionPower</code> field now defaults to <code>1</code> if not specified.
* <code>goat</code>
** The <code>HasLeftHorn</code> and <code>HasRightHorn</code> fields now default to true if not specified.
* <code>interaction</code>
** The <code>width</code> and <code>height</code> fields now default to <code>1</code> if not specified.
* <code>item</code>
** The <code>Health</code> field now defaults to <code>5</code> if not specified.
** The <code>PickupDelay</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
** The <code>Age</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
** The <code>Owner</code> and <code>Thrower</code> fields will no longer be preserved when removed.
* <code>item_frame</code> and <code>glow_item_frame</code>
** The <code>ItemDropChance</code> field now defaults to <code>1.0</code> if not specified
* <code>primed_tnt</code>
** The <code>fuse</code> field now defaults to <code>80</code> if not specified.
** The <code>explosion_power</code> field now defaults to <code>4</code> if not specified.
* <code>shulker</code>
** The <code>Color</code> field now defaults to <code>16</code> (no color) if not specified.
* <code>skeleton</code>
** The <code>StrayConversionTime</code> field will no longer be preserved when removed.
* <code>spectral_arrow</code>
** The Duration field now defaults to <code>200</code> if not specified.
* <code>snow_golem</code>
** The Pumpkin field now defaults to <code>true</code> if not specified.
* <code>tnt_minecart</code>
** The <code>fuse</code> field now defaults to <code>80</code> if not specified.
** The <code>explosion_power</code> field now defaults to <code>4</code> if not specified.
** The <code>explosion_speed_factor</code> field now defaults to <code>1</code> if not specified.
* <code>trader_llama</code>
** The <code>DespawnDelay</code> field now defaults to <code>47999</code>.
* <code>villager</code>
** The <code>FoodLevel</code> and <code>Xp</code> fields now default to <code>0</code> if not specified.
** The <code>ConversionTime</code> field will no longer be preserved when removed.
* <code>wandering_trader</code>
** The <code>DespawnDelay</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
* <code>zombie</code>
** The <code>DrownedConversionTime</code> field will no longer be preserved when removed.
* <code>zombie_villager</code>
** The <code>Xp</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
** The <code>ConversionTime</code> field will no longer be preserved when removed.
* <code>arrow</code>, <code>spectral_arrow</code>, <code>trident</code>
** The <code>damage</code> field now defaults to <code>2</code> if not specified.
* <code>dragon_fireball</code>, <code>wind_charge</code>, <code>breeze_wind_charge</code>, <code>wither_skull</code>, <code>small_fireball</code>, and <code>large_fireball</code>
** The <code>acceleration_power</code> field now defaults to <code>0.1</code> if not specified.
* <code>small_fireball</code> and <code>large_fireball</code>
** The <code>ExplosionPower</code> field now defaults to <code>1</code> if not specified.
* <code>block_display</code>, <code>item_display</code>, and <code>text_display</code>
** The <code>interpolation_duration</code>, <code>teleport_duration</code>, and <code>start_interpolation</code> fields now default to <code>0</code> if not specified.
** The <code>view_range</code> field now defaults to <code>1</code> if not specified.
** The <code>shadow_radius</code> field now defaults to <code>0</code> if not specified.
** The <code>shadow_strength</code> field now defaults to <code>1</code> if not specified.
** The <code>width</code> and <code>height</code> fields now default to <code>0</code> if not specified.

'''[[NBT format]]'''
* Any interface with NBT data within the game (SNBT representation, {{cmd|data}}) now supports heterogeneous lists, i.e. ones where elements are not of the same type
** Inserting or replacing into a list of a different type with {{cmd|data}} will no longer give an error.
** Inserting into an array type (e.g. <code>[I;1,2,3]</code>) is still type-restricted.
** This means that the 'wrapper' objects previously used to represent heterogeneous lists will no longer be observable by in-game means.
* The NBT file format is unchanged.
** Heterogeneous lists are transformed before storage to bypass NBT constraints.
*** Example transform: <code>['a', {'b':3}]</code> is stored as <code>[{'<nowiki/>':'a'},{'b':3}]</code>.
** Existing external tools will still be able to read NBT files as before, but heterogeneous lists will be displayed in the transformed form.
* No data produced by the game has changed: objects such as Text Components were already producing heterogeneous lists in this form.
* Note: these wrapper objects may never be observed in-game, they are only relevant to developers working with the NBT file or network format directly.

'''[[SNBT]] format'''
* The text format for describing object-like data in commands (like NBT, text components, predicates, etc.) has been extended.
* Number Format
** Either whole or fraction parts of a float number can be omitted
*** Examples: <code>.1</code> and <code>1.</code> are valid now
** Float numbers now use E notation
*** Example: both <code>1.2e3</code> and <code>1.2E3</code>, <code>1.2E+3</code>, <code>12000e-1</code> are now a valid way to represent <code>1200.0</code>
** Integer numbers can now be prefixed with <code>0x</code> to represent hexadecimal numbers and <code>0b</code> to represent binary numbers
*** Example: <code>0xbad</code> (equal to <code>2989</code>), <code>0xCAFE</code> (equal to <code>51966</code>), <code>0b101</code> (equal to <code>5</code>)
** Integer numbers now can't start with <code>0</code>
*** Normally (e.g. in Java) it would mean number is in base-8, but this usage is not implemented, to avoid accidental misuse
** Numbers can now contain <code>_</code> character between sequences of digits (but not at the start or the end of sequence)
*** Example: <code>0b10_01</code>, <code>0xAB_CD</code>, <code>1_2.3_4__5f</code>, <code>1_2e3_4</code>
** <code>NaN</code>, <code>Inf</code> or hexadecimal float representation are NOT supported
** Type suffixes have been extended:
*** Integer type suffixes (<code>b</code> or <code>B</code> - byte, <code>s</code> or <code>S</code> - short, <code>i</code> or <code>I</code> - integer, <code>l</code> or <code>L</code>) can now be prefixed with <code>s</code> (signed) or <code>u</code> unsigned
*** New suffixes only affect valid range when parsing - values are still stored as signed
**** Example: <code>240ub</code> is equal to <code>-16sb</code>, while <code>240sb</code> does not parse
*** When a suffix is used without <code>u</code> or <code>s</code>, it defaults to signed for decimal numbers and unsigned for binary and hexadecimal numbers
*** Note: since <code>b</code> is also a valid hexadecimal digit, byte sized hexadecimal values can only be written with a signed suffix, like <code>0x11ub</code> or <code>0x11sb</code>

* Strings
** Quoted strings can now use escape sequences beyond ', " and \:
*** Unicode escapes:
**** <code>\x</code> - two digit escape, like <code>\x42</code>
**** <code>\u</code> - four digit escape, like <code>\u2603</code>
**** <code>\U</code> - eight digit escape, like <code>\U00002603</code>
**** <code>\N{<name>}</code> - named Unicode character, like <code>\N{Snowman}</code>
*** Built-in escape sequences:
**** <code>\b</code> - backspace, Unicode <code>\x08</code>
**** <code>\s</code> - space, Unicode <code>\x20</code>
**** <code>\t</code> - horizontal tab, Unicode <code>\x09</code>
**** <code>\n</code> - linefeed, Unicode <code>\u0a</code>
**** <code>\f</code> - form feed, Unicode <code>\u0c</code>
**** <code>\r</code> - carriage return, Unicode <code>\u0d</code>
** Unquoted strings now can't start with <code>0-9</code>, <code>.</code>, <code>+</code>, <code>-</code> to avoid accidental collision with numbers

* Number Arrays
** Values in arrays (<code>[B;]</code>, <code>[I;]</code>, <code>[L;]</code>) without a suffix are now assumed to have suffix matching the type of the array
*** Example: <code>[B;1,2]</code> is equivalent to {{cd|[B; 1b, 2b]}}
** Arrays can now also accept types smaller than the array type
*** Example: <code>[I;1b,2s,3]</code> is valid and equivalent to <code>[I;1i,2i,3i]</code>

* Lists
** Lists now accept trailing commas
*** Example: <code>[1,2,]</code> is valid and equivalent to <code>[1,2]</code>
*** Only one trailing comma is allowed, and it must come after a valid element - both <code>[,]</code> and <code>[1,,]</code> are invalid

* Compounds
** Compounds (maps) now accept trailing commas
*** Example: <code>{a:b,}</code>
*** Only one trailing comma is allowed, and it must come after a valid key-value pair - both <code>{,}</code> and <code>{a:b,,}</code> are invalid

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added <code>farmland</code> to <code>#dry_vegetation_may_place_on</code> block tag.
* Added <code>leaf_litter</code> to <code>#replaceable</code> block tag.
* Added <code>cactus_flower</code> to <code>#wall_post_override</code> block tag.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MC|fixedin=25w09a
|;From released versions before 1.21
|168262|Dead bushes cannot be placed on farmland.
|236100|End crystal beam appears to be black.
|;From 1.21.2
|276861|The player can sometimes teleport through blocked end portals when moving very fast.
|;dev
|279229|SNBT text components prevent <code>\n</code> and <code>\t</code> from working.
|279236|Flying into water with an elytra puts the player into an erroneous state.
|279250|SNBT text components prevent unicode escapes from working.
|279252|Changing a single line of a sign with {{cmd|data}} is no longer possible in some situations.
|279278|Strafing twice in rapid succession while walking forward causes player to sprint.
|279928|Beacon beam clips into beacon block when far enough away.
|279932|Beacon beam disappears and reappears when approaching it.
|279942|Beacon beam can render over fog when outside render distance.
|279947|Snout of the new cow model is offset vertically by 0.1 pixels.
|280022|Players can be lit by lava while stepping onto solid blocks next to it.
|280033|Beacon beams render beyond client render distance.
|280121|Leaf litter can be placed on walls and fences.
|280123|Short dry grass and tall dry grass aren't randomly offset, unlike similar blocks.
|280155|Random ticks can cause entity build-up in lazy chunks.
|280170|Goats can no longer ram armor stands unless the game rule <code>mobGriefing</code> is set to <code>false</code>.
|280211|End crystal beams cause OpenGL errors with glDebugVerbosity set to 3.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|6PK34Qpl5Lk|E_NCyRsdX5g}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:25w09a]]
[[es:Java Edition 25w09a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 25w09a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 25w09a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 25w09a]]
[[ru:25w09a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:25w09a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版25w09a]]