{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 15w33c
|image=Java Edition 15w33c.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=August 14, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=23237d415c9cf637a261e02f6759f4ab1d553f52
|jsonhash=2b27de469db8b259764d97fb7570f668a1cc7606
|serverhash=042b351243f4236d02976ffc1e7f83f93ac932c7
|exehash=3674eb9221355c735fe16e5c9b0f7ea36e6185aa
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w33b
|next=15w34a
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''15w33c''' is the ninth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on August 14, 2015,<ref>{{cite|url=https://www.mojang.com/2015/08/minecraft-snapshot-15w33a|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150821010045/https://mojang.com/2015/08/minecraft-snapshot-15w33a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 15w33c|website=Mojang.com|author=[[Dinnerbone]]|date=August 12, 2015}}</ref> which added [[shield]]s, changed various features, and fixed some bugs and crashes from the previous two snapshots.

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Shield]]s'''
* Used for blocking incoming attacks.
** Holding right click while being attacked reduces damage on the player and the durability of the shield.
*** This works when the shield is either in the main hand or in the offhand.
**** The player can hold 2 shields at once, but it does not affect the damage taken.
* Can be combined with banners of the same base color to transfer its pattern.
** This does not consume the banner.
* The player cannot {{control|attack}} while blocking.
* Crafting recipe: One column of [[wool]] (of the same color), one column of [[planks]] (any kind), an [[iron ingot]] in the middle of the last column.
* Can only be repaired on the [[anvil]].
** Requires [[planks]] to repair.
* Cannot be enchanted on the enchanting table, but can have Unbreaking added via an [[enchanted book]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Brewing stand]]s'''
* Can now accept [[splash potion]]s into the lower slots.
* Before, the only way to get splash potions in a brewing stand was to brew them from normal potions and leave them in the slots.

'''[[Ender crystal]]s'''
* New <code>BeamTarget</code> tag.
** Used to specify a custom target for the beam.
** Example: {{cmd|summon EnderCrystal ~ ~1 ~ {BeamTarget:{X:1,Y:2,Z:3}<nowiki>}</nowiki>}}.

=== Items ===
'''[[Fire charge]]s'''
* Now shoot as [[ender dragon]] fireballs when ejected from a [[dispenser]], appearing purple and casting dragon's breath. 
** Before this, they had shot as [[blaze]] fireballs. 
** This was reverted in [[15w44b]] to shoot as blaze fireballs once again.

'''[[Sword]]s'''
* Can no longer be used for blocking, since shields now serve that function.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Ender dragon]]'''
* Respawned dragons now drop 500 [[experience]].
* Respawning the dragon now regenerates the circle of pillars, including the [[ender crystal]]s and [[iron bars]].
** Explosion particles appear at the tops of the pillars as they are being rebuilt.
** All [[end gateway]]s are left intact.

'''[[Creeper]]s, [[skeleton]]s, & [[zombie]]s'''
* Detection range for players wearing the corresponding [[head]] adjusted to be 37.5% of the normal range.

=== World generation ===
'''[[End ship]]s'''
* No longer generate with a [[pumpkin]].
* The middle iron block has been replaced with a [[hopper]].
** Inside, there is a book written by [[Searge]], which reads "We will have something else here soon..."

=== General ===
* Non-player entities can no longer regenerate the [[obsidian]] platform when entering an end portal.
* A non-player entity going through a [[nether portal]] no longer causes a return portal to generate on the other side if none exists already.
'''[[Pick block]]'''
* Respects the tags of items in [[item frame]]s while holding {{key|Ctrl}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w33c|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|10447|Pick up framed enchanted items with "Pick Block (MOUSE 3)" doesn't give player the enchanted item.
|68399|Pressing the '<' key takes screenshot on certain keyboard layouts.
|73474|Rail duplication glitch.
|;From the 1.8 development versions
|48732|{{key|Ctrl}} plus pick block overwrites selected item.
|;dev
|82855|Invisible shulker shows white box until relog.
|82875|Right-clicking with sword still blocks.
|82986|Stackable items of same id and meta value but different NBT tags will stack in Creative menu.
|83350|Entities teleporting through a portal disappear instead of teleporting.
|83945|Item counts can go negative when interacting with entities, allowing duplication.
|84320|Respawned ender dragon doesn't drop experience.
|84681|If in block when you log out, you spawn 1 block lower.
|85500|Syntax for '{{cmd|scoreboard players}}' doesn't include '<code>tag</code>' parameter.
|85801|Ender dragon dying randomly at portal.
|85834|Pick-Block on mobs gives you a blank spawn egg.
|85865|Can't put splash potions in brewing stands.
|86007|Both the bottle and dragon's breath are consumed when making lingering potions.
|;previous
|85925|Problems while loading NBT [<code>AreaEffectCloud</code>].
|85973|Modifying the '<code>Age</code>' tag of an '<code>AreaEffectCloud</code>' entity will result in the '<code>Effects</code>' tag being duplicated.
|85999|NBT Tag "<code>Peek</code>" is broken.
|86066|Mob spawner spawns skeletons without bow.
|86082|Cannot summon an entity with a custom UUID.
|86085|Potions and spawn eggs still show data values in tooltips.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|CFnX-AsujEk}}

== Trivia ==
* This version was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w33c]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w33c]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w33c]]
[[it:Java Edition 15w33c]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w33c]]
[[nl:15w33c]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w33c]]
[[ru:15w33c (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w33c]]