These are the strings that are now translatable in '''[[Java Edition 1.12]]'''. Previously, these strings are hard-coded into the game.

<pre>multiplayer.status.and_more=... and %s more ...
multiplayer.status.cancelled=Cancelled
multiplayer.status.cannot_connect=Can't connect to server
multiplayer.status.cannot_resolve=Can't resolve hostname
multiplayer.status.client_out_of_date=Client out of date!
multiplayer.status.no_connection=(no connection)
multiplayer.status.old=Old
multiplayer.status.pinging=Pinging...
multiplayer.status.server_out_of_date=Server out of date!
multiplayer.status.unknown=???
multiplayer.status.unrequested=Received unrequested status
multiplayer.disconnect.authservers_down=Authentication servers are down. Please try again later, sorry!
multiplayer.disconnect.banned=You are banned from this server.
multiplayer.disconnect.duplicate_login=You logged in from another location
multiplayer.disconnect.flying=Flying is not enabled on this server
multiplayer.disconnect.generic=Disconnected
multiplayer.disconnect.idling=You have been idle for too long!
multiplayer.disconnect.illegal_characters=Illegal characters in chat
multiplayer.disconnect.invalid_entity_attacked=Attempting to attack an invalid entity
multiplayer.disconnect.invalid_player_movement=Invalid move player packet received
multiplayer.disconnect.invalid_vehicle_movement=Invalid move vehicle packet received
multiplayer.disconnect.ip_banned=You have been IP banned.
multiplayer.disconnect.kicked=Kicked by an operator.
multiplayer.disconnect.outdated_client=Outdated client! Please use %s
multiplayer.disconnect.outdated_server=Outdated server! I'm still on %s
multiplayer.disconnect.server_shutdown=Server closed
multiplayer.disconnect.slow_login=Took too long to log in
multiplayer.disconnect.unverified_username=Failed to verify username!

container.enchant.level.requirement=Level requirement: %s

filled_map.unknown=Unknown Map
filled_map.level=(Level %s/%s)
filled_map.scale=Scaling at 1:%s

debug.prefix=[Debug]:</pre>

[[Category:Data pages]]

[[ja:Java Edition 1.12/新しい翻訳可能な文字列]]
[[zh:Java版1.12/新可翻译字符串]]