{{Infobox version 
|title=Minecraft 16w06a
|edition=Java
|image=16w06a.png
|image2=Java Edition 16w06a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=February 10, 2016
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=544342f959159d63da205b23947ee9c10b73045c
|jsonhash=f90799db6ea46ee93a3abade178475864c30427b
|serverhash=c4da6936d6374fd7116900135a2ae664de63d3bf
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=16w05b
|next=16w07a
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''16w06a''' is the fifty-fourth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on February 10, 2016.<ref name="blogpost_16w06a">https://www.mojang.com/2016/02/minecraft-snapshot-16w06a/</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Elytra]]'''
* The elytra texture now defaults to the cape texture if no custom texture is uploaded and the player owns a cape.

'''[[Tipped arrow]]s '''
* Are now crafted by 8 arrows surrounding a [[lingering potion]] of that type, yielding 8 of them.
** Can no longer be obtained by splashing down a lingering potion first, then shooting regular arrows through that cloud.
** This new method can even create tipped arrows from a custom lingering potion using [[commands]], but the tipped arrow will say "Arrow of Splashing" if it is custom-made.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Stronghold]]s'''
* Generation has changed (to a formation or pattern of rings):
** The 1st ring has 3 strongholds distanced 1408–2688 blocks from the origin.
** The 2nd ring has 6 strongholds distanced 4480–5760 blocks from the origin.
** The 3rd ring has 10 strongholds distanced 7552–8832 blocks from the origin.
** The 4th ring has 15 strongholds distanced 10624–11904 blocks from the origin.
** The 5th ring has 21 strongholds distanced 13696–14976 blocks from the origin.
** The 6th ring has 28 strongholds distanced 16768–18048 blocks from the origin.
** The 7th ring has 36 strongholds distanced 19840–21120 blocks from the origin.
** The 8th ring has 9 strongholds distanced 22912–24192 blocks from the origin.

=== Gameplay ===
'''Entities'''
* The player's body, hand and held item is now rendered while sleeping in bed.
* Most entities in the game should now move much more smoothly.

'''[[Frost Walker]]'''
* Maximum radius is now 16 blocks (i.e., levels over 14 do not increase the range).

=== General ===
'''Performance'''
* Riding entities such as [[boat]]s, [[horse]]s, [[minecart]]s and saddled [[pig]]s, are now run by the client instead of by the server.

'''Sounds'''
* In addition to previous patches of the 1.9 snapshots, more sounds have been modified. {{info needed}}

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=16w06a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|72340|Summoning an iron golem riding a zombie makes the zombie blind.
|;dev
|84361|Ridden pig on a grass path is constantly jumping.
|88403|Arrows blocked by shield appear first above the player and then in front.
|90202|Client can always use carrot on a stick, ignoring pig's food state.
|90348|<code>stat.breakItem.minecraft.shield</code> does not exist.
|90605|Constant teleporting between the Nether and the Overworld.
|92289|Extra strongholds spawn in positions Mojang didn't intend.
|92476|Inventory Duplication Glitch based on uncompleted entity removal.
|94104|Floating tripwire disappears since 15w50a.
|94169|Fishing rod bobber collision error (into the block).
|94213|Snowman/iron golem slight into blocks (descent altitude 0.03125, 1/32 block).
|95416|Item duplication in multiplayer.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|nuSRB6F2X6E}}

== Trivia ==
* 16w06a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.
* The [[wool]] in the [[hotbar]] in the snapshot cover image when converted into numbers based on the damage value reads "17022016", which appears to be February 17, 2016 — the date that [[Java Edition 1.9-pre1]] was later released.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:16w06a]]
[[es:Java Edition 16w06a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 16w06a]]
[[it:Java Edition 16w06a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 16w06a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 16w06a]]
[[ru:16w06a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版16w06a]]