{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 13w23a
|image=13w23a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 13w23a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.6.1
|date=June 7, 2013<ref name=snapshot/>
|clienthash=5f4d786a78b0b9b169f048b849f71dbc2d4ac0b0
|jsonhash=365db94f11e3aa54ab49f2add65628c67162d19f
|serverhash=b26a278856a6a4703054ad266b79b1ef397676c2
|exehash=44a526ce45bd1e95444e2d4aa869dee140494548
|prevparent=1.5.2
|prev=13w22a
|next=13w23b
|nextparent=1.6.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''13w23a''' is the eleventh [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.6.1]], released on June 7, 2013.<ref name=snapshot>{{citation|url=https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://www.mojang.com/2013/06/minecraft-snapshot-13w23a|title=Minecraft snapshot 13w23a|website=Mojang|author=Jeb|date=June 7, 2013}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''<code>naturalRegeneration</code>'''
* For natural health regeneration.

'''<code>/spreadplayers</code>'''
* Spreads certain players from an origin point.
* Has a max spread and minimum distance from player to player.
* Can put [[teams]] together.

=== General ===
'''[[Splash]] screens'''
* 2 new splash screens including:
** "HURNERJSGER"
** "What's up Doc?"

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Glistering melon]]s'''
* Crafting recipe requires 8 [[gold nugget]]s.

'''[[Golden apple]]s'''
* Now requires [[gold ingot]]s instead of gold nuggets to craft.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* Are now balanced to improve gameplay.
* Instant Health nerfed by 33% (heals only 4 health points/2 hearts at level I).
* Regeneration nerfed by 50% (takes 50 ticks/2.5 seconds to restore 1 health point/.5 heart at level I).
** Natural health regeneration now costs hunger points/saturation points.

=== General ===
'''[[Resource pack]]s'''
* Still not quite ready yet.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=13w23a|prefix=Snapshot
|;dev
|13880|Cows eat buckets.
|16074|Teleporting to "NaN" (not a number) crashes the game.
|16290|[crash] mob spawner crashing game.
|;previous
|17051|[Wolves] attack horses.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* This update focuses on the "[[ultra hardcore]]" mode (playing with natural regeneration disabled).

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.6.1 development versions]]

[[de:13w23a]]
[[es:Java Edition 13w23a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 13w23a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 13w23a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 13w23a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 13w23a]]
[[ru:13w23a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版13w23a]]