{{Infobox version
|title=1.4
|server?=y
|edition=java
|date=June 13, 2009
|prefix=Classic server
|serverdl='''Original:''' [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-classic/c1.4-1327.zip Server]<br>'''Reupload:''' [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-classic/c1.4-1422.jar Server] (.jar only)
|prevparent=1.3
|next=1.4.1
|nextparent=1.5
|client=[[Classic 0.0.18a|0.0.18a]] – [[Classic 0.0.18a 01|0.0.18a_01]]
}}

'''1.4''' was a server version of [[Java Edition Classic]] released on June 13, 2009,<ref name=":0">{{tumblr|Notch|122890918|New server update, 1.4|June 13, 2009}}</ref> at 13:30 UTC.<ref>[[#0613 logs|June 13 IRC logs]]: "''A8:30:10 <Notch> there's a new minecraft-server.zip up''" (13:30:10UTC)</ref>

Server 1.4 was reuploaded at 14:22 UTC<ref>[[#0613 logs|June 13 IRC logs]]: "''A9:22:34 <Notch> robink93: new server.zip up''" (14:22:34 UTC)</ref> (52 minutes after release) to fix a bug where the player could click outside of the map.<ref>{{tumblr|Notch|122901859|If you get the "clicked outside the map" error,|June 13, 2009}}</ref><ref>[[#0613 logs|June 13 IRC logs]]: "''A9:15:36 <robink93> Cheat detected: clicked outside map.''" [...] "''A9:15:51 <Notch> and it wasn't, robink93?''", "''A9:15:54 <robink93> yes it was''", "''A9:16:02 <robink93> jump, place block under, repeat''", "''A9:16:09 <Notch> ok, I can make it not kick on that, I guess. :D''" (14:15 to 14:16 UTC)</ref>

== Additions ==
'''[[Commands]]'''
* Added server support for the {{cmd|teleport}} command.<ref>[[#0614 logs|June 14 IRC logs]]: "''A5:57:41 <Notch> there is a teleport command in the new server. =)''", "''A5:57:48 <Notch> /teleport <name>''" (10:57 UTC)</ref>

== Changes ==
'''Multiplayer'''
* The server now checks all incoming strings, verifies that they are all within reasonable limits, and kicks the sender if they are not.<ref name=":0"/>

'''Logging'''
* Server output is now logged in file <samp>server.log</samp>.<ref>[[#0613 logs|June 13 IRC logs]]: "''P6:38:36 <smn> Notch, is there any way to log server output?''", "''P6:38:47 <Notch> it should do so already since the latest server update!''", "''P6:38:49 <Notch> server.log''" (23:38 UTC)</ref>

== Fixes ==
* Fixed an exploit where people could crash everyone connected to a server by sending a fake text message.<ref name=":0"/>
** The client would gladly attempt to render weird unicode characters, but would crash when trying to look up entry ten thousand in a 256 entry array.<ref name=":0"/>

== References ==
* {{anchor|0613 logs}}'''June 13 IRC logs:''' [https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/DBN-IRC-Logs/ IRC logs] on Archive.org; #minecraft.20090613.log. June 13, 2009 (UTC&minus;5).
* {{anchor|0614 logs}}'''June 14 IRC logs:''' [https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/DBN-IRC-Logs/ IRC logs] on Archive.org; #minecraft.20090614.log. June 14, 2009 (UTC&minus;5).
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[es:Java Edition Classic server 1.4]]
[[ja:Java Edition Classic server 1.4]]
[[lzh:爪哇版古典版伺服器一點四]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic server 1.4]]
[[ru:Сервер Classic 1.4 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Classic服务器1.4]]