{{log4j vulnerability}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.7.6
|image=Java Edition 1.7.6.png
|edition=Java
|date=April 9, 2014<ref name=blog />
|clienthash=6b2c5827994e17f904f0852f962dd6fccfbb8bdc
|jsonhash=4cdba7fb4ea885d508bf7469812bdcee6b490681
|serverhash=41ea7757d4d7f74b95fc1ac20f919a8e521e910c
|exehash=99615bc71d0a6e178961edc13be57cf4b7d0ef75
|prevparent=1.7.2
|prev=1.7.5
|next=1.7.7
|nextparent=1.8
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.7.6''' is a minor update to {{JE}} that was released on April 9, 2014,<ref name=blog>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2014/04/minecraft-1-7-6/|title=Minecraft 1.7.6|author=Searge|website=Mojang.com|date=April 9, 2014}}</ref> which implemented a new player skin system and support for player name changing. It is incompatible with [[Java Edition 1.7.2|1.7.2]]–[[Java Edition 1.7.5|1.7.5]] servers. It was replaced the same day by [[Java Edition 1.7.7|1.7.7]] to fix a major bug, and then again the next week by [[Java Edition 1.7.8|1.7.8]] and [[Java Edition 1.7.9|1.7.9]].

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Minecraft Realms]]'''
* Improved 'configure' screen.
** Can now OP players from the config screen.<ref>{{tweet|xlson|453822384634855424|Minecraft 1.7.6 is out! It includes some improvements to Realms, like being able to OP your buddies.|April 9, 2014}}</ref>
** Easier to invite and uninvite players.
** New button to close and unclose realm.

'''Name changing'''
* Support for name changing.
** Only the support for changing names, actually being able to change name came on February 4, 2015.<ref>{{cite|url=https://www.mojang.com/2014/03/minecraft-snapshot-14w10a/|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2014/03/minecraft-snapshot-14w10a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w10a|author=Dinnerbone|website=Mojang.com|date=March 6, 2014}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|KrisJelbring|562916800871297024|Minecraft profile name changes are live. To change your name log in to account.mojang.com|February 4, 2015}}</ref>

'''[[Option]]s'''
* The server resource packs option is now per-server, and has three settings: prompt, enabled, and disabled.
* The minimum setting for the FOV option is now 30 instead of 70.

'''[[Skin]]s'''
* Skins and capes are now distributed through servers.
* Skins server outages occur less frequently and have less impact.<ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|422751486708551681|Rewriting how skins/capes are distributed. Servers will download the info from us and redistribute it clients, should be much more stable!|January 13, 2014}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|422751718234148864|It basically means that skins shouldn't go down as much (if they do it won't matter as much too), and changing your skin is more instant.|January 13, 2014}}</ref>
* Skin changes no longer require client restarting, at worst re-logging updates the skin for everybody.
* Server-altered skins and capes are not possible - only signed URLs are stored server-side.
* Duplicate skins no longer need to be downloaded twice.
* Server traffic is barely affected.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.7.6,1.7.6-pre2,1.7.6-pre1|prefix=Minecraft
|;From releases before 1.7.2
|33086|Save-all causes lag spikes on larger maps.
|;From 1.7.2
|31468|Holes in bedrock and Replaced any block using Arbitrary TNT and flame bows.
|;From earlier released 1.8 development versions
|47723|Broadcast settings - report to Mojang, links to previous bug reporting facility.
|;From 1.7.4
|48826|"replace" directive in sounds.json does not work.
|;From 1.7.5
|51953|Almost instant motion sickness due to distorted rendering.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Reupload ==
The json date is 18 minutes before our jar.

== Trivia ==
* As a result of the old skin server being shut down, 1.7.6 is the oldest version of the game where skins still work without the use of modifications or third-party programs.
* 1.7.6 is the first version since [[Java Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]] to use explicit pre-release labeling.
* 1.7.6 is the first version to use the "-pre" notation for pre-releases.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:1.7.6]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.7.6]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.7.6]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.7.6]]
[[ko:Java Edition 1.7.6]]
[[lzh:爪哇版一點七點六]]
[[pl:1.7.6]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.7.6]]
[[ru:1.7.6 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.7.6]]