{{DISPLAYTITLE:Java Edition Classic 0.0.15a_03}}
{{Distinguish|Java Edition Classic 0.0.15a (Multiplayer Test 3)}}
{{Noproof-version}}
{{Version conjecture||0.0.15a_03 is not confirmed to be the correct name, it could, for example, be a reupload of [[Java Edition Classic 0.0.15a_02]].}}
{{Infobox version
|title=0.0.15a_03
|edition=Java
|date=June 4, 2009
|clientdl=Client not archived
|serverdl=Corresponding server unavailable
|prefix=Classic
|prevparent=0.0.15a (Multiplayer Test 1)
|prev=0.0.15a_02
|nextparent=0.0.16a
}}

'''0.0.15a_03'''{{cn}}{{note|0.0.15a_03 is not confirmed to be the correct name for this version; it could, for example, be a reupload of [[Java Edition Classic 0.0.15a_02]].}} is a version of [[Java Edition Classic]] released on June 4, 2009, at around 20:49 UTC, which added an error message for an invalid protocol and fixes bugs.<ref name=":0">[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''[14:46] <@Notch> AHHH!!!''", "''[14:46] <unknownczar> CRASH''" [...] "''[14:47] <@Notch> lol, I'm fixing some stuff. =)''" [...] "''[14:49] <Onforty> Notch? MP test up?''" [...] "''[14:49] <@Notch> Onforty: Yes''" (20:47 to 20:49 UTC)</ref>

== Technical ==
=== General ===
* Added an error message for an invalid protocol.<ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''[15:02] <@Notch> I added a new message to the protocol. error. But the client doesn't deal with it yet''" (21:02 UTC)</ref>

== Fixes ==
'''2 bugs fixed'''
* Fixed a crash.<ref name=":0"/>
* Servers now kick players immediately when the server is full.<ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''[15:03] <@Notch> and I made the server kick people IMMEDIATELY when it's full. it used to wait for the login message, but that means you can dos the server by just connecting a hundred people''" (21:03 UTC)</ref>

== Bugs ==
'''1 bug reported'''
* [[Singleplayer]] had issues.<ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''[14:50] <Zuriki> Single Player not working?''" (20:50 UTC)</ref>

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
* {{anchor|logs}}[https://archive.org/download/Testvan-Minecraft-IRC-logs IRC logs]: #minecraft.20090604.log (June 4, 2009, UTC&minus;6)
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[es:Java Edition Classic 0.0.15a 03]]
[[fr:Édition Java Classique 0.0.15a 03]]
[[ja:Java Edition Classic 0.0.15a 03]]
[[lzh:爪哇版古典版〇點〇點一五甲之三]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic 0.0.15a 03]]
[[ru:Classic 0.0.15a 03 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Classic 0.0.15a 03]]
[[Category:Java Edition Classic versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition Multiplayer Test Classic versions]]