{{Infobox version
|title=15w36a
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 15w36a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=September 2, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=132f019cf1bd9524451c83756440bd71468dac26
|jsonhash=851de2edecdd714d0deaeb6138a8aca5da02575f
|serverhash=ee0b49a2fff99c93b7a216931c11292537eed473
|exehash=9c8b798a59ae6c151e7ae21c22d6af6fc4cde62c
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w35e
|next=15w36b
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w36a''' is the nineteenth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on September 2, 2015.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2015/09/minecraft-snapshot-15w36a/</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''[[Scoreboard]]'''
* <code>collisionRule</code> added as a team rule to the scoreboard.
** It determines whether or not entities can push each other, and whether or not it's team dependent.
** Subcommands: <code>always</code>, <code>never</code>, <code>pushOtherTeam</code>, <code>pushOwnTeam</code>.

== Changes ==
'''[[Command block]]s'''
* Can no longer be placed by players who are unable to use [[commands]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Armor]]'''
* Armor protection calculations have been nerfed:
** Max (20) armor points damage reduction reduced from 80% to 66% (Changed back again in 16w02a).
** Armor points count for less as the attack strength increases: each {{hp|2}} done by the attack reduces the effective defense points by {{armor|1}}.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* No longer reset their AI when hit.
* Due to {{bug|MC-87946}}, all hostile mobs can now draw line of sight through solid blocks in order to track the player.

'''[[Creeper]]s, [[skeleton]]s, and [[zombie]]s'''
* Detection range for players wearing their corresponding [[mob head]] adjusted to be 50% of the normal range again.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchanting]]'''
* [[Sharpness]] and [[Protection]] enchantments have been nerfed.
** Each Sharpness level now adds {{hp|1}} damage to the base damage at level I and an additional {{hp|0.5}} for each additional level, down from a flat {{hp|1.25}} per level.
** Protection enchantment bonuses are now linear instead of quadratic.

'''[[Entities]]'''
* Players can now be pushed by other entities again.
** The exceptions being: items, [[painting]]s, [[ender crystal]]s, [[Lingering Potion#Area effect cloud|area effect cloud]]s, [[item frame]]s and [[Experience|xp]] orbs.
** These can be overridden for [[mob]]s and players through a team rule.
** The same class of entities are now "magnetic" to the [[fishing rod]] bobber, and in the case of mobs/players no longer suffer from knockback or pseudo-damage.

=== General ===
'''Performance'''
* Optimized memory usage when connected to servers.<ref>{{tweet|SeargeDP|638736531105185792|I optimized the memory usage when connected to a server. We kept an unnecessary server object around on the client. Not anymore #RiskyChange|September 1, 2015}}</ref>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w36a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|7980|Enderman teleportation and behavior irregular.
|59098|Enderman only make the 'stare' noise as long as the player is close to the enderman.
|64591|Wither skeletons wield sword incorrectly.
|;dev
|82955| Left-hand items render incorrectly on Alex model skins.
|86840|Armor durability affecting protection is not working right.
|87611|Chains of conditional command blocks don't work properly.
|;previous
|87759|Hopper: <code>java.lang.NullPointerException: Loading entity NBT</code>.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|_EHoPY0LiQ4}}

== Trivia ==
* This version was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w36a]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w36a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w36a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w36a]]
[[lzh:一五週三六甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w36a]]
[[ru:15w36a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w36a]]