{{unreleased version|private=y}}
{{Infobox version
|title=0.0.3a
|edition=Java
|prefix=Classic
|date=May 16, 2009
|clientdl=Client not archived
|serverdl=No corresponding server
|prevparent=0.0.2a
|nextparent=0.0.9a
}}<onlyinclude>

'''0.0.3a'''<ref name='0.0.3'/><ref group=note>Notch didn't explicitly mention the "a" part in the name. However, since the previous and following versions included it, it is a safe assumption that this version's number included the "a" too.</ref> is a version of [[Java Edition Classic]] released on May 16, 2009, at 18:05 UTC, which re-added caves.<ref name='0.0.3'>TigIRC logs: "''(14:05:16) notch: fartron: I uploaded 0.0.3 with caves. Does it load the new version properly if you reload the page?''"</ref>

== Additions ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[Cave]]s<ref name='0.0.3'/>'''
* Generate randomly underneath the ground.

== Bugs ==
'''3 bugs reported'''
* This version crashed for one tester.<ref>TigIRC logs: "''(14:06:44) fartron: java.lang.illegalArgumentException:input == null!''" [...] "''(14:07:08) notch: fartron: Does it still start? That's probably the game trying to load a map and failing''", "''(14:07:12) fartron: no''" [...] "''(14:07:16) fartron: crashed''" [...] "''(14:12:11) notch: ooh, I can reproduce the invalid value error on the [[wikipedia:Asus Eee|eee]]! That's good!''" (18:07 to 18:12 UTC)</ref>
* The screen appears as white for users on an [[wikipedia:Asus Eee|Asus Eee]].<ref>TigIRC logs: "''(14:16:04) tantan: i'm getting a white  screen''", "''(14:16:15) fartron: textureless blocks tantan or all white''", "''(14:16:22) tantan: all white''" [...] "''(14:16:47) notch: tantan: What graphics card? I get the same on the [[wikipedia:Asus Eee|Eee]]''", "''(14:17:05) tantan: i'm on me [[wikipedia:Asus Eee PC|eee]]''" (18:16 UTC)</ref>
* [[Block]]s can be placed inside the space the [[player]] is currently inside.<ref>TigIRC logs: "''(14:10:09) Zaratustra: I can spawn blocks where I currently exist''" [...] "''(14:10:32) notch: yeah, it's one of those bugs.. I keep ignoring it''" (18:10 UTC)</ref>

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
* {{link|url=https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/history/files/May-15-to-June-03-2009/2009-05-16.075419-0400EDT.txt.~1~|title=TigIRC logs|date=May 16, 2009, UTC–4|website=Archive.org}}
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[de:Classic 0.0.3a]]
[[es:Java Edition Classic 0.0.3a]]
[[fr:Édition Java Classique 0.0.3a]]
[[hu:Java Edition Classic 0.0.3a]]
[[it:Java Edition Classic 0.0.3a]]
[[ja:Java Edition Classic 0.0.3a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 클래식 0.0.3a]]
[[lzh:爪哇版古典版〇點〇點三甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic 0.0.3a]]
[[ru:Classic 0.0.3a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Classic 0.0.3a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Classic 0.0.3a]]
[[Category:Java Edition Classic versions]]