{{Infobox version
|title=12w50a
|image=Java Edition 12w50a.png
|edition=java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.4.6
|date=December 13, 2012
|clientdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.4/pre/12w50a.jar Client] ([https://meta.omniarchive.uk/versions/v1/12w50a.json .json])
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w50a.jar Server]
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w50a.exe .exe]
|prevparent=1.4.5
|prev=12w49a
|next=12w50b
|nextparent=1.4.7
}}<onlyinclude>

'''12w50a''' is the second [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.4.6]], released on December 13, 2012,<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20121216033722/http://www.mojang.com/2012/12/minecraft-snapshot-12w50a</ref> which added new Christmas chest textures and the [[Thorns]] enchantment.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Chest]]s'''
* Added 3 new textures: <code>xmaschest.png</code>, <code>largexmaschest.png</code>, and <code>skis.png</code>.
** <code>xmaschest.png</code> changes the [[chest]] texture to resemble a red gift.
** <code>largexmaschest.png</code> changes the large chest texture to resemble a green gift.
** <code>skis.png</code> is unused, dummy file. [[Dinnerbone]] said he added this file as a red herring.<ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|283392354851901440}}</ref>
** Chests use these textures on December 25.

=== Items ===
'''[[Tool]]s'''
* Added tool highlight when switching items in the hotbar.
** Renamed items display the changed name.
** To disable it, player needs to open <code>options.txt</code> and change <code>heldItemTooltips</code> to <code>false</code>.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Villager]]s'''
* [[Enchanted book]]s are now available through [[Trading/Before Java Edition 1.8|villager trading]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Dungeon]]s'''
* [[Enchanted book]]s can be found in dungeons with special enchantments normally not obtainable.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchanting]]'''
* Added [[Thorns]] enchantment for armor.
** When player wearing such armor gets hit by a mob, the mob receives damage.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''General '''
* [[Item entities]] are rendered as 3D objects in the world when in [[Graphics settings|fancy graphics]] mode.
** This includes items placed in [[item frame]]s.
* Items now show their [[enchantment]]s when dropped on the ground.

'''[[Firework rocket]]'''
* Tweaked the effect the item gives and sounds.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Creative]]'''
* Removed the [[firework rocket]] from the [[Creative inventory]].

'''[[Enchanting]]'''
* [[Efficiency]] now has no effect when using tools on the wrong block types.
* [[Protection]] is no longer as effective as all the other Protection-type enchantments combined.
* [[Unbreaking]] can be applied to anything with durability using enchanted books.

=== General ===
'''[[Control]]s'''
* Pressing {{key|CTRL}}+{{key|Q}} by default (Or the "Drop" button if changed in controls), the player drops a full stack instead of one item.

'''Notices'''
* Added a notice/warning for users still playing on PowerPCs or Java 5 (Java 1.5).
** Mojang plans to drop support for Java 5 by [[Java Edition 1.6.1|version 1.6]].<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://help.mojang.com/customer/portal/articles/884921</ref> This is due to the most recent versions of LWJGL no longer supporting Java 5, with PowerPC also no longer supported by Apple to be made compatible with Java 6 or newer.<ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|278126596089606144}}</ref>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.4.6|prefix=Minecraft
'''old'''
|255|Graphical issue with trading.
|312|Item textures of spawn eggs and firework stars not aligned properly when stacked.
|674|Items different only in damage cannot be swapped.
|1626|Z-fighting in beacon block bottom.
|1959|Placing double slabs ignore damage values.
|1969|minecarts cant travel through nether portals.
|3593|Lightning does not flash.
|4499|Beacon tiers do not work at y{{=}}0.
|4510|Enchantment not showing in item frame.
|;prev
|4193|Firework star duplication glitch.
|4199|Deaths not logged to console.
|4200|The Nether and the End generating random blocks clientside in multiplayer.
|4203|Enchanted Books: Unenchantable item can receive any enchantment.
|4433|Falling sand spawners failing to save properly, and causing crashes.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 12w50a is the first correctly labeled snapshot released on the 50th week of a year, as [[11w50a]] is labeled incorrectly as [[11w49a]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.4.6 development versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition development versions released in 2012]]

[[de:12w50a]]
[[es:Java Edition 12w50a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 12w50a]]
[[it:Java Edition 12w50a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 12w50a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 12w50a]]
[[lzh:一二週五〇甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java 12w50a]]
[[ru:12w50a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版12w50a]]