{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft 1.20.3 Pre-Release 1
| image = 1.20.3-pre1.jpg
| image2 = Java Edition 1.20.3 Pre-Release 1.png
| edition = Java
| type = Pre-Release
| date = November 20, 2023
| jsonfile = 1.20.3-pre1
| jsonhash = 01a3578dc25196586341fb36d77e10302b087cdf
| clienthash = 6d2514a107afa3be0abeba720e2f96defab9310f
| clientmap = a4613682d94829578be6e3de18a3cf4bfd4e3107
| serverhash = e5db7e4884f55c4dd986ca7200145759169e0045
| servermap = 9a17aa30016887fc42a0dc04d0375d918dc201d4
| parent = 1.20.3
| prevparent = 1.20.2
| prev = 23w46a
| next = 1.20.3 Pre-Release 2
| nextparent = 1.20.4
}}<onlyinclude>
'''1.20.3 Pre-Release 1''' (known as '''1.20.3-pre1''' in the launcher) is the first pre-release for [[Java Edition 1.20.3]], released on November 20, 2023,<ref>{{mcnet|minecraft-1-20-3-pre-release-1|Minecraft 1.20.3 Pre-Release 1}}</ref> which makes changes to world [[resource packs]] and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Grass]]'''
* Renamed "Grass" to "Short Grass".
* The ID has been changed from {{cd|grass}} to {{cd|short_grass}}.

=== General ===
'''[[Data pack]]'''
* The data pack version is now 26.

'''[[Resource pack]]'''
* The resource pack version is now 22.
* Changes to downloaded/world resource pack handling.
** Changes apply to world resource packs ({{samp|resources.zip}}), Realms resource packs and resource packs controlled by dedicated servers.
* UI download screen has been replaced with a toast.
* World resource pack application starts together with chunk loading.
* Downloaded packs are now stored in downloads directory (with different file organization than old {{cd|server-resource-packs}})
** Files in this directory are no longer automatically cleaned (previously only up to 10 packs were kept).
** Additionally, inside this directory there is also log file {{samp|log.json}} that stores information about downloaded files for debug purposes.
* Downloaded packs now have unique id (GUID/UUID) that can be used to differentiate them.
** This value for dedicated server pack can be configured with the {{cd|resource-pack-id}} option in {{samp|server.properties}}.
** If the value is missing, it is generated based on URL.
** If hash of a pack is not set, this pack is redownloaded before every application.
** Previously, if hash was missing, the latest downloaded version of a pack was applied.

'''General'''
* Some additional options are added for 3rd-party servers software:
** Client can now accept multiple server resource packs.
** New packet was added to un-apply server resource packs.
** Resource packs are no longer cleaned when entering configuration phase.

== Experimental ==
These additions only take effect when the [[Update 1.21]] experimental data pack is enabled.

=== Additions ===
==== General ====
'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added the following entity type tag:
** {{cd|#can_turn_in_boats}}: contains {{cd|breeze}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.20.3 Pre-release 1
|;From released versions before 1.20
|142160|{{cd|pausedTickDelta}} updated when the game is unpaused rather than paused.
|147649|Can't copy or select command block output.
|164316|Resource pack update by a hash doesn't work.
|173434|Server resource pack download is inconsistent.
|185117|Narrator Disabled text in toast is no longer vertically centered.
|251126|Server resource pack is not redownloaded when a hash mismatch is detected with the previously downloaded version.
|;From 1.20<!-- MC-265927 and MC-265929 are marked to first appear in 1.20.2 in the bug tracker, but it has been tested that they also affect 1.20 -->
|265927|Edit box length restrictions can result in unpaired surrogate characters.
|265929|{{key|Ctrl+Backspacing}} a word with non-BMP characters in an edit box deletes additional characters.
|;dev
|266456|Breezes in minecarts or boats are passive.
|266468|Breeze cannot attack in deep water.
|266472|Charged creeper / wither armor is rendered incorrectly.
|266507|Number of block drops from TNT explosions is capped to 16.
|266563|End Crystals and TNT Minecarts that explode without a source entity deal no damage at all.
|266571|Breezes won't attack while under the effects of levitation status.
|266656|The interpolation of particle, entity and block entity transforms is disrupted when pausing the game in singleplayer.
|;previous
|266723|Monsters Hunted advancement requires killing a Breeze even when they're disabled.
|266724|{{cmd|scoreboard players reset <targets> <objective>}} no longer works.
|266729|Unformatted objects in scoreboard error messages.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|OyCfyg_wmZQ}}

== References == 
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:1.20.3-pre1]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.20.3 Pre-Release 1]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.20.3 Pre-Release 1]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.20.3 Pre-Release 1]]
[[lzh:爪哇版一點二〇點三之預一]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.20.3 Pre-Release 1]]
[[ru:1.20.3 Pre-Release 1 (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:1.20.3 Pre-Release 1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.20.3-pre1]]