{{Lost version}}
{{Infobox version
|title=1.5
|server?=y
|edition=java
|date=June 19, 2009
|prefix=Classic server
|prevparent=1.4
|prev=1.4.1
|nextparent=1.6
|client=[[0.0.19a]] – [[0.0.19a_03]]
|serverdl=Unavailable (x2)
}}

'''1.5'''<ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''P6:00:57 <AlLnAtuRalX> server software on website is 1.5''" (June 20, 2009, 23:00:57 UTC)</ref> was a [[Java Edition Classic]] server version released with [[Classic 0.0.19a|client 0.0.19a]] on June 19, 2009.<ref>{{link |url=https://notch.tumblr.com/post/126684752/client-0019a-is-up-a-server-update-is-required |title=Client 0.0.19a is up, a server update is required |date=June 20, 2009 |website=The Word of Notch}}</ref>

Server version 1.5 was reuploaded to fix the version number.<ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''P6:00:57 <AlLnAtuRalX> server software on website is 1.5''" [...] "''P6:01:49 <AlLnAtuRalX> Someone answer me... Why is the server ont he website 1.5?''" [...] "''P6:02:22 <AlLnAtuRalX> Notch: the server on teh website I am seeing as the old one''" [...] "''P6:02:33 <Notch> i didn't update the version number in it''" (23:00 to 23:02 UTC)</ref>

== Additions ==
* Allow players to send most admin commands via stdin.
* Added chat throttling.
** Players who spam the chat get muted for 8 seconds.
* Added movement throttling.
** The server doesn't process more than a single move command per tick.
** Stand still to catch up if it's lagging.
* Added <code>max-connections</code> to [[server.properties]].
** This is the maximum number of connections per IP to the server.
** Defaults to 3.

== References ==
* {{anchor|logs}}[https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/DBN-IRC-Logs/ IRC logs] on Archive.org; #minecraft.20090619.log. June 19, 2009 (UTC&minus;5).
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[es:Java Edition Classic server 1.5]]
[[ja:Java Edition Classic server 1.5]]
[[lzh:爪哇版古典版伺服器一點五]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic server 1.5]]
[[ru:Сервер Classic 1.5 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Classic服务器1.5]]