{{Infobox version
|title=0.2.5
|server?=true
|edition=java
|date=November 24, 2010
|client=[[Alpha v1.2.3|v1.2.3]], [[Alpha v1.2.3_01|v1.2.3_01]]
|serverdl='''Original:''' [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-alpha/a0.2.5-0923.jar .jar]<br>
'''Reupload:''' [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-alpha/a0.2.5-1004.jar .jar], [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-alpha/a0.2.5-1004.exe .exe]
|prefix=Alpha server
|prevparent=0.2.0
|prev=0.2.4
|nextparent=0.2.6
|next=0.2.5_01
}}

'''0.2.5''' is a server version of [[Java Edition Alpha]] released with client version [[Alpha v1.2.3|v1.2.3]] on November 24, 2010, without .exe file.<ref>{{Cite IRC logs|Adura|tz=standard|file=2010-11-24_#minecraft.log|"04:53:07 <elt> i tried downloading the server but it's still 0.2.4"..."04:53:29 <esper_kolby> yeah the exe 0.2.4 "}}</ref>

This version was reuploaded at 10:04 UTC (41 minutes after release)<ref>{{Cite IRC logs|Adura|tz=standard|file=2010-11-24_#minecraft.log|"05:03:21 <Notch> fixing the server as well.. hold on"..."05:05:42 <Notch> Server's been updated"}}</ref> to fix broken leaf decaying.

== Additions ==
* New server configuration settings:
** <code>pvp <true/false></code> (<code>true</code> by default). If this is set to <code>false</code>, [[player]]s cannot directly attack other players (i.e. by hitting them or shooting them with a [[bow]]; things like [[lava]] still damage them).
** <code>spawn-monsters <true/false></code> (<code>true</code> by default). If this is set to <code>false</code>, all hostile mobs are removed and they cannot spawn.
** <code>spawn-animals <true/false></code> (<code>true</code> by default). If this is set to <code>false</code>, all passive mobs are removed and they cannot spawn.

== Changes ==
* The [[fire]] on players and mobs who are burning is now visible in [[multiplayer]].
* Damage is now correctly given for falling, drowning, and burning.
* Eating [[food]] restores [[health]].
* Players can now respawn.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a block respawning bug in multiplayer.<ref>{{Cite IRC logs|Adura|tz=standard|file=2010-11-24_#minecraft.log|"05:08:16 <Grum> Notch: did you fix the block-respawning? :)"..."05:08:22 <Notch> yes, grum, I think so"}}</ref>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Alpha Server 0.2.5]]
[[es:Java Edition Alpha server 0.2.5]]
[[ja:Java Edition Alpha server 0.2.5]]
[[lzh:爪哇版首測版伺服器〇點二點五]]
[[pt:Edição Java Alpha server 0.2.5]]
[[ru:Сервер Alpha 0.2.5 (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Alpha сервер 0.2.5 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Alpha服务器0.2.5]]