{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 25w33a
|image=25w33a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 25w33a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=August 12, 2025
|jsonhash=668fe51f971b2e5d55c17b8a39d59a924728d383
|clienthash=7ea8455dd98248a23868bde948d9aeddd0d6f7fa
|clientmap=bf18cc9f67108efb2369f15f42358165b7c9f3ee
|serverhash=83027f72aa7957837aeeaef499c67105583d0928
|servermap=503dad3066e73e0761a2ce27bc9e2a954b0df496
|parent=1.21.9
|prevparent=1.21.8
|prev=25w32a
|next=25w34a
|nextparent=1.21.10
}}<onlyinclude>

'''25w33a''' is the third [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.21.9]], released on August 12, 2025.<ref>{{snap|25w33a|id=a|August 12, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Chat draft]]s'''
* Unsent chat messages now get saved as chat drafts if the chat was forcibly closed.
** This includes it being closed by external sources such as dying or a dialog opening, but not the player intentionally closing their chat.
* Any existing chat draft will get pre-filled into the message box the next time the chat is opened.
* Draft text has a grayed-out appearance until fully restored.
** Draft text can be restored as regular text by interacting with it:
*** Typing additional text.
*** Moving the text cursor using the arrow keys.
*** Clicking it.
*** Highlighting it.
** Pressing {{key|enter}} on a chat draft prior to it being restored sends it like a normal chat message.
** Pressing {{key|backspace}} on a chat draft prior to it being restored deletes it.

'''[[End flash]]'''
* [[The End]] dimension now has skylight.
* Normally the skylight does not affect how the dimension looks.
* Every 30 seconds, flashes in the sky happen.
* When they happen, skylight intensity increases flooding the dimension with purple light.
* Last between 5 and 19 seconds.

'''[[Options]]'''
* Added an option to the Chat Settings menu that enables saving unsent chat messages by default.
** With this option enabled, unsent messages will always get saved as chat drafts, even if the player intentionally closed their chat.

'''[[Sounds]]'''
* Added {{cd|weather.end_flash}} sound events.

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added {{cd|#shearable_from_copper_golem}} item tag.
** Contains all items that can be removed from the [[copper golem]]'s head slot via [[shears]].
* Added {{cd|#accepts_iron_golem_gift}} entity type tag.
** Contains all mob types an iron golem can place a poppy on the head of.
* Added {{cd|#candidate_for_iron_golem_gift}} entity type tag.
** Contains all entity types an iron golem may offer a poppy.
* Added {{cd|#cannot_be_pushed_onto_boats}} entity type tag.
** Contains entity types that do not automatically enter boats.

'''[[Textures]]'''
* Added <samp>environment/end_flash.png</samp>

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Shelf]]'''
* Items in the shelf will render in the middle of the shelf.
* Updated the sizes of many items in the shelf to better fit the shelf.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Copper golem]]'''
* Decorative flowers can now be planted on them by [[iron golem]]s.
** These flowers can be removed with [[shears]].
** Drop upon turning into a [[copper golem statue|statue]].

'''[[Iron golem]]'''
* Now sometimes plant a decorative flower onto a nearby copper golem.

=== General ===
'''[[Attribute]]'''
* <code>run_command</code> click event
** Previously, if the command field contained a command that required a signed message ({{cmd|say}}, {{cmd|me}}, {{cmd|msg}}, {{cmd|tell}}, {{cmd|w}}, {{cmd|teammsg}}, {{cmd|tm}}), it would be silently discarded.
*** Instead, a screen will be shown that lets the user insert the command into the chat window or copy the command to their clipboard if the chat window can't be opened.

'''[[Block states]]'''
* Added {{cd|align_items_to_bottom}} block state property to the [[shelf]] block.
** If {{cd|false}} the items on the shelf will ignore the vertical translation of the {{cd|on_shelf}} item display transform and will be rendered vertically aligned to the middle of the shelf.
** If {{cd|true}} the items on the shelf will be rendered upward from the bottom of the shelf and will respect the vertical translation of the {{cd|on_shelf}} item display transform.
*** Default is {{cd|false}} (items are aligned to the middle of the shelf).

'''[[Chat]]'''
* It is now possible to start chatting while standing inside a [[Nether portal]].
* The chat will now remain open and unchanged if the player was chatting before being transferred to another dimension.

'''[[Data pack]]'''
* The [[pack format]] version is now {{cd|83.1}}.

'''[[Enchantment definition]]'''
* {{cd|explode}} entity effects
** New field: {{cd|block_particles}}{{note|Incorrectly called {{cd|block_effects}} in the official changelog.}} 
*** Specifies per-block particles. Each block particle is randomly chosen according to weights. A set limit of block particles is spawned each tick from all explosions that tick.
*** Format: List of entries.
**** {{cd|weight}}: Non-negative integer representing the random weight for this entry being chosen
**** {{cd|particle}}: The particle to spawn
**** {{cd|scaling}}: Optional scaling to apply between explosion center and block position, or {{cd|1.0}} if not specified
**** {{cd|speec}}{{sic}}<ref>{{bug|MC-300983}}</ref>: Optional scaling to apply to the speed of the particle, or {{cd|1.0}} if not specified

'''[[Resource pack]]'''
* The version is now {{cd|65.2}}.
* Added new display transform <code>on_shelf</code>
** Used for displaying items on the [[Shelf]].

'''[[Social Interactions]]'''
* Players that have joined a server are now always shown in the Social Interactions screen of that server even if they are offline.{{verify|Is this what it means? The original phrasing in the changelog is confusing.}}

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added {{cd|copper_pickaxe}} to {{cd|#cluster_max_harvestables}} item tag.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MC|fixedin=25w33a
|;From released versions before 1.21
|26334|Chat UI is forcibly cleared when killed.
|46503|You can retain entities' shaders by running the {{cmd|kill}} command while in spectator mode.
|69216|Switching to spectator mode while fishing keeps rod cast.
|98322|Flying after shifting between Creative/Spectator.
|99785|You can leash entities in spectator mode.
|119417|A spectator can occupy a bed if they enter it and then are switched to spectator mode.
|165991|TNT explosion no longer shows additional smoke particles since 1.15 Pre-release 1.
|173730|Shift-clicking water buckets against a waterloggable block doesn't place the water beside the waterloggable block.
|183784|Visual bug to the Game Mode Switcher debug menu after resizing the window.
|187850|{{cd|run_command}} {{cd|click_event}} doesn't work in written books if chat is hidden.
|191669|Sprinting is disabled when switching your gamemode to spectator while sprinting into a block or general obstruction.
|232968|Spectators can prevent the closing animation of a chest/barrel when viewing it at the same time as a non-spectator.
|238146|When you switch to Spectator mode while sleeping, the night never skips.
|259571|Last player game mode not saved after player dies or the game is reloaded.
|270172|Client and server desync for hooked players when changing gamemode to spectator.
|;From 1.21.6
|297898|Entering a dialog temporarily closes the chat and clears anything the player was currently typing.
|;From 1.21.7
|299548|{{cd|run_command}} dialog actions don't work if chat is hidden.
|;From 1.21.8
|299823|Minecraft shaders cause C7050 warnings.
|299873|Selection boxes of plain messages within dialogs can get cut off.
|300034|Dolphins can ride boats.
|300457|Dialog is unescapable when action or {{cd|exit_action}} is set to {{cd|run_command}} with a command that would produce a signed chat message.
|;dev
|300057|Monsters still spawn for a tick when spawning them with a Spawn Egg in Peaceful.
|300183|Items in shelves are smaller on Java than they are on Bedrock.
|300417|The copper pickaxe is not part of the {{cd|#cluster_max_harvestables}} item tag.
|300477|The translucent parts of breezes are now intermittently ordered incorrectly.
|;prev
|300722|Hoppers appear to randomly stop draining items through shelves.
|300732|Loaded ender pearls are deleted when viewing the end credits for the first time when {{cd|enderPearlsVanishOnDeath}} is true.
|300739|Server crash when generating custom structures containing shelf blocks.
|300746|Missing translation for copper wall torch.
|300747|Cannot see villager's profession layer behind slime.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|xxQ6NlX3cKo|riw_p0u-1g8}}

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[es:Java Edition 25w33a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 25w33a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 25w33a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 25w33a]]
[[ru:25w33a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:25w33a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版25w33a]]