{{Infobox version
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 14w07a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=February 14, 2014
|parent=1.8
|clienthash=d6a73ccba25f4c30d56af73f43a2d3c9a5458a1e
|jsonhash=b3f18dabae1e9c1b4888e26f2a7ee0fc4ca13cdd
|serverhash=de78ac487cf3fb6770e8c15f83e2219d4df851ae
|exehash=a2c16840eeb7d900c8bf7f9f9f228e1c856637d9
|prevparent=1.7.10
|prev=14w06b
|next=14w08a
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''14w07a''' is the twelfth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.8]], released on February 14, 2014,<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140221073128/https://mojang.com/2014/02/minecraft-snapshot-14w07a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w07a|date=February 14, 2014|website=Mojang.com|author=[[Dinnerbone]]}}</ref> which adds [[iron trapdoor]]s and the {{cmd|execute}} and {{cmd|testforblocks}} [[command]]s.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Iron trapdoor]]'''
* Can only be opened and closed using [[redstone]], similar to an [[iron door]].
* Crafted by placing [[iron ingot]]s in a 2×2 pattern, yields 1 iron trapdoor.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|execute}} '''
* Allows commands to be run from the position of specified entities using.
** Example: {{cmd|1=execute @e[type=Chicken] ~ ~ ~ fill ~-1 ~-1 ~-1 ~1 ~1 ~1 minecraft:glass}}.

'''{{cmd|testforblocks}}'''
* Compares two areas of a world.
** Example: {{cmd|testforblocks 100 64 100 107 69 107 0 64 0 masked}}.

'''[[Scoreboard]]'''
* Scoreboard objectives for fake players with a name starting with # never show up on the sidebar.
* New {{cmd|scoreboard}} subcommands: {{cmd|scoreboard operation}} and {{cmd|scoreboard test}}.
** The <code>operation</code> subcommand can apply arithmetic operation to scores (+ – * / %) and accumulate player scores.
*** Example: {{cmd|1=scoreboard players operation #teamscores redScore += @a[team=red] blueKills}} adds every red player's count of kills on blue to the red team's score of kills.
** The <code>test</code> subcommand can be used to test if a scoreboard value is between a min and a max value.
*** Example: {{cmd|scoreboard players test #global anObjective 12 19}} checks whether the global score of the given objective is between 12 and 19, inclusive.
* Different teams can now have different objectives displayed in the sidebar.
** Example: {{cmd|scoreboard objectives set display sidebar.team.yellow objectiveName}} (referring to team color, not team name).
* Teams can now have settings on how the nametags are to be shown - {{cmd|scoreboard teams option red nametagVisibility hideForOtherTeam}}. Also possible: hideForOwnTeam, never, always (default).

'''[[Target selectors]] '''
* New selector parameters for entity selectors to detect entity rotations with <code>rxm</code> – x rot min, <code>rx</code> – x rot max, <code>rym</code> – y rot min, <code>ry</code> – y rot max.
** Example: <code>@a[rxm=-15,rx=15,rym=-45,ry=45]</code>, <code>/say @a[rxm=30,rx=90] , don't look down!</code>.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''General'''
* Updated the block model format.
** Now less exploitable.
** UV has to be [0,1] (Textures can no longer be "borrowed" from neighboring block textures).
** Planes need to have 1 axis 'identical' (so aligned to either x, y, or z).
** Plane rotation can only be -45/45 on a single axis.
** From/to and uv coordinates are now in 'pixelspace' (multiples of 1/16th of a block).

'''[[Cocoa]]'''
* Invalid metadata versions now [[Missing model|have no model]].

'''[[Command block]]s'''
* Now show the <code>@e</code> [[target selector]] variable.

'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Can now place [[command block]]s with pre-configured commands, rather than dispensing it

'''[[Ladder]]s'''
* Invalid metadata versions now [[Missing model|have no model]].

'''[[End portal frame]]s'''
* Invalid metadata versions now [[Missing model|have no model]].

'''[[Redstone torch]]es, [[torch]]es'''
* Now have an angled top side when placed on walls.

=== Items ===
'''[[Blaze rod]]s'''
* Are now held similarly to [[tool]]s.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|testfor}}, {{cmd|testforblock}}, {{cmd|clear}}'''
* Can now test for partial matches of NBT lists.
** Example: {{cmd|testfor @p <nowiki>{Inventory:[{Slot:6b,id:"minecraft:diamond_sword"}],SelectedItemSlot:6}</nowiki>}}.

'''{{cmd|tellraw}}'''
* Can now insert values from scoreboards into messages.
** Example: {{cmd|tellraw @p <nowiki>{text:"Have ",extra:[{score:{name:"Searge",objective:"reward"}},{text:" diamonds"}]}</nowiki>}}.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Creative]] mode'''
* Players can create a copy of a block entity in their hotbar, including all NBT data, with ctrl+{{ctrl|pick block}}.

'''[[Spectator]] mode'''
* Players can now share LAN.

=== General ===
'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* Looking at a block in the world shows the coordinates of that block on the debug screen.
* BlockItem instances can now hold a custom tag that is merged into a [[block entity]] when it's placed.
** Example: {{cmd|give @p command_block 1 0 <nowiki>{BlockEntityTag:{Command:"setblock ~ ~ ~ minecraft:diamond_block"}}</nowiki>}}.

'''[[Inventory]] system'''
* Rewrote the inventory system.
** Reverted before the full release of [[Java Edition 1.8]].<ref>{{reddit|31z5gz/dinnerbone_working_with_inventories|cq6k74n}}</ref>
* Fixes some bugs, improves performance and allows easier improvements.
* Allows custom NBT that isn't handled by the game to be added onto items.
** Custom tags remain even if the item's NBT is changed in-game. (i.e. by renaming).

'''[[Resource pack]]s'''
* Resource packs can now be bundled with a world, put it in the map save directory and name it "resources.zip".
** Example: <code>.minecraft/saves/TheMapWithTheThing/resources.zip</code>.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=14w07a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|1818|Skullowner is lost when "picking" the skull in Creative.
|4837|Zombie/player held beacon experience Z-fighting.
|7133|Texture of burning furnace (ID62) shows no face in Inventory.
|11270|Scoreboard don't work with offline / non-existant players.
|36947|{{cmd|weather clear <nowiki><time in seconds></nowiki>}} doesn't clear weather for anywhere near the amount given.
|41594|Game crashes when Ender crystal is stacked on top of horse.
|44829|Unable to load Twitch libraries.
|46431|Iron golem breaks lead.
|;dev
|46696|Too many flowers near lake <!-- comment in tracker by cconsenza, fixed in 07a -->.
|;prev
|44489|{{cmd|kill @e}} doesn't kill ender dragons.
|45106|Mipmapping strength is not applied to non-standard blocks.
|45571|Farmer type villagers don't generate on superflat without grass.
|45773|Chest not spawning in monster dungeons.
|46400|Player arm invisible after using F5 in spectator mode and switching to creative.
|46559|Spectating a mob leaves the player at two blocks tall view.
|46838|{{cmd|testfor}} NBT parsing error.
|47212|{{cmd|testfor}} + inventory bug.
|47520|Standing under block with water/lava on top will apply blue/red filter.
|47543|Items stacked with items that have <code>PickupDelay</code> set to 32767 can no longer be picked up.
|47545|<code>CanPlaceOn</code> does not work with wooden doors.
|47555|Cannot place boats.
|47596|Items of the same type (IE, stone, and stone) ignore data values and stack anyway.
|47598|The color of sugar canes doesn't change depending on the biome.
|47642|<code>Hopper: java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException: 4</code>.
|47653|Torches causing missing texture when placed on bottom side of block.
|47685|<code>Hopper: java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException: 3</code>.
|47796|Leaves, grass, and tall grass all have a more brightly colored tint.
|47817|Baby zombie pigman running with strange speed.
|47821|Ghasts do not despawn in Peaceful mode
|48043|Held blaze rod not in hand.
|48341|Locking chests, furnaces, etc.
|48357|Cubic selectors return out-of-order (per-chunk?) results. ({{cmd|kill}}).
|48784|Duplication of items using gravity.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 14w07a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:14w07a]]
[[es:Java Edition 14w07a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 14w07a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 14w07a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 14w07a]]
[[ru:14w07a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:14w07a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版14w07a]]