{{unreleased version|private=y}}
{{version conjecture||This version had no in-game label.}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft classic alpha
|edition=Java
|phase=Classic
|date=May 16, 2009
|clientdl=Client not archived
|prefix=Classic
|prev=mc-161625
|nextparent=0.0.2a
|no_data=1
|no_protocol=1
|no_java=1
|sort=Classic mc-161648
}}

A version of "''Minecraft alpha''" ([[Java Edition Classic Alpha]]) was released on May 16, 2009, at 16:48 UTC, which fixed issues with the mouse.<ref>[[#logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(12:48:58) notch: dock, fartron, Jrsquee: I've uploaded a new version that fixed the mouse lag for me. You might have to restart your browser to avoid applet cache issues. Could you see if it works now? =)''"</ref> This is the last version of ''Minecraft'' to lack an in-game version number.

== Fixes ==
'''1 bug fixed'''
* Fixed mouse look issues.<ref>[[#logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(12:34:01) notch: ok, thank you. I need to fix this mouse look thing, I think. ;)''"</ref>

== Trivia ==
* This version was the last unnumbered version of early ''Minecraft'', as a version number was added from the next update.<ref>[[#logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(12:49:34) fartron: put in a build count or something so i can tell if it loaded the new one''", "''(12:49:56) notch: good idea. I'll add from the next version and up. =)''"</ref>

== References ==
* {{anchor|logs}} {{link|url=https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/history/files/May-15-to-June-03-2009/2009-05-16.075419-0400EDT.txt.~1~|title=TigIRC logs|date=May 16, 2009, UTC–4|website=Archive.org}}
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}
[[Category:Java Edition Classic versions]]

[[cs:Java edice Pre-Classic mc-161648]]
[[de:Classic mc-161648]]
[[es:Java Edition Classic mc-161648]]
[[fr:Édition Java Classique mc-161648]]
[[hu:Java Edition pre-Classic mc-161648]]
[[it:Java Edition Classic mc-161648]]
[[ja:Java Edition pre-Classic mc-161648]]
[[ko:Java Edition 프리클래식 mc-161648]]
[[lzh:爪哇版先典版麥蠟都一六一六四八]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic mc-161648]]
[[ru:Classic mc-161648 (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Pre-Classic mc-161648 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版pre-Classic mc-161648]]