{{about|the development version|the full release of Combat Test 8|Java Edition Combat Test 8b}}
{{unreleased version|private=y|available=y}}
{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft Combat Test 8
| image = Java Edition Combat Test 8.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| parent = Combat Test 8b
| date = August 19, 2020
| clienthash = 0d4f92e7cc264f251f65677b1b078c8bc3f0959c
| jsondl = [https://archive.org/download/1-16-combat-4_202404/1_16_combat-4.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
| clientmap = b530c54b4d11936a5336eb32db52fac1cf71ada3
| serverhash = f7e28154b5927d0761d0c7bc5dff4a1263f33109
| servermap = 4c5f692d446dbc09d8be7c6a1c49c485644d361b
| prevparent = Combat Test 7c
| nextparent = Combat Test 8c
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 8''' is a development version for [[Combat Test 8b]]. Although it is a development version for a future release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.16.2|1.16.2]]. 

This version was privately released for testing and thus was not initially made available to the general public.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Arrow]]s'''
* Instantaneous effects on tipped arrows are now scaled by {{frac|1|8}}, just like the duration of other effects.

'''[[Bow]]s'''
* Returned bow fatigue for holding the bow pulled, but it doesn't start until 3 seconds. Bow fatigue also cancels out "critical arrows".

'''[[Potion]]s'''
* [[Strength]] I/II now adds +20%/+40% (was +3/+6 damage).
* [[Instant Health]] potions now heal 3&times;2<sup>''level''</sup> (was 2&times;2<sup>''level''</sup>).
* Potions can now be drunk faster (20 ticks, was 32 ticks).

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Eating]]'''
* Returned eating interruption for getting hit (by [[player]]s or [[mob]]s), also applies to drinking.
* Liquid food (stews, honey, milk) can now be consumed faster (20 ticks, was 32 or 40 ticks).

'''[[Enchantment]]s'''
* Weapon enchantments are now included in the base damage when calculating critical hits and potion effects.

'''Build mechanics'''
* It is now possible to build in front of players' feet when looking down over a ledge.

== Fixes ==
'''From the previous development versions'''
* Fixed shield protection arcs.
* Improved server-side attack range calculations.</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|zGZCg5NwrJ0}}

== Trivia ==
* Combat Test 8 has the same [[protocol version]] as [[Combat Test 8b]] and [[Combat Test 8c]], which means these versions are cross-compatible with each other.
** This is a rare time where 3 development versions have had the same protocol version excluding joke versions.

== Notes ==
{{Notelist}}

== External links ==
* [https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/ed4ac6cf06a6828888f24b58416542dacf6e9960/Minecraft%20Damage%20Calculations%20%28v2%29.xlsx A Microsoft Excel sheet] that [[Mojang Studios|Mojang]] has been using to check damage values.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[de:Combat Test 8]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 8]]
[[lzh:爪哇版鬭測八]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 8]]
[[ru:Combat Test 8 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 8]]