{{Dangerous version|type=crash|The game crashes if an item stack is depleted.<ref>{{bug|MC-93592|Client Crashes when depleting an item stack}}</ref>|version=development|edition=java}}
{{Infobox version 
|title=15w49a
|edition=Java
|image=15w49a.png
|image2=Java Edition 15w49a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=December 2, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=16e868a098239c16ecde3f06865eaf1995c11445
|jsonhash=4ccaa5b6ce63f7863d8535e85069581c0f04c3ab
|serverhash=63e4904766e1af15c1a4a412ec3aeb9c5972176d
|exehash=d444f3e1f18d0c15d7ee5e6f439a51859632a02f
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w47c
|next=15w49b
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''15w49a''' is the forty-fourth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on December 2, 2015.<ref>{{link|url=https://www.mojang.com/2015/12/minecraft-snapshot-15w49a/|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151202172719/https://www.mojang.com/2015/12/minecraft-snapshot-15w49a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 15w49a|author=Searge|website=Mojang.com|date=December 2, 2015}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''[[Sound]] events'''
* Added <code>block.furnace.fire_crackle</code>.
* Added <code>block.waterlily.place</code>.
* Added <code>entity.cow.milk</code>.
* Added <code>entity.hanging.place</code> (removed in [[15w49b]]).
* Added <code>entity.hanging.pop</code> (removed in [[15w49b]]).
* Added <code>entity.itemframe.add_item</code>.
* Added <code>entity.itemframe.break</code>.
* Added <code>entity.itemframe.place</code>.
* Added <code>entity.itemframe.remove_item</code>.
* Added <code>entity.itemframe.rotate_item</code>.
* Added <code>entity.leashknot.place</code>.
* Added <code>entity.painting.break</code>.
* Added <code>entity.painting.place</code>.
* Added <code>entity.snowman.ambient</code>.
* Added <code>entity.snowman.death</code>.
* Added <code>entity.snowman.hurt</code>.
* Added <code>entity.squid.ambient</code>.
* Added <code>entity.squid.death</code>.
* Added <code>entity.squid.hurt</code>.
* Added <code>item.armor.equip_chain</code>.
* Added <code>item.armor.equip_diamond</code>.
* Added <code>item.armor.equip_generic</code>.
* Added <code>item.armor.equip_gold</code>.
* Added <code>item.armor.equip_iron</code>.
* Added <code>item.armor.equip_leather</code>.
* Added <code>item.bottle.fill</code>.
* Added <code>item.bottle.fill_dragonbreath</code>.
* Added <code>item.bucket.empty</code>.
* Added <code>item.bucket.empty_lava</code>.
* Added <code>item.bucket.fill</code>.
* Added <code>item.bucket.fill_lava</code>.
* Added <code>item.chorus_fruit.teleport</code>.
* Added <code>item.hoe.till</code>.
* Added <code>item.shovel.flatten</code>.

=== General ===
'''[[Statistics]]'''
* <code>aviateOneCm</code>: Tracks the distance a player has glided using [[elytra]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Activator rail]]s & [[powered rail]]s'''
* No longer transmit power to each other.

'''[[Beacon]]'''
* Now drops any contained item when exiting the GUI.
* No longer accepts items from hoppers.
* <code>PaymentItem</code> tag removed.

'''[[Cactus]]'''
* Breaks if lava is adjacent.
* Cactus on sand breaks if water or lava is in the block above.

'''[[Cobweb]]'''
* Now catches snowballs, eggs, thrown potions, XP bottles, and ender pearls, causing the item form of the projectile to be dropped. 
** Removed in [[15w49b]].

'''[[Crops]] & [[nether wart]]'''
* Hitbox now changes as the plant grows.

'''[[Door]]s'''
* Are now placed facing left/right depending on which half of the block the player clicks on, unless neighboring doors cause them to place a certain way.

'''[[End crystal]]s'''
* Now require air or replaceable blocks in the two blocks above the block it's being placed on.
* Can no longer be placed to intersect other entities.

'''[[Fire]]'''
* Chance of going out in rain increased by 20 percentage points (now 20% + 3 percentage points per age).

'''[[Furnace]]'''
* The <code>lit_furnace</code> block is no longer available as an item.

'''[[Lily pad]]s'''
* Bounding box changed, now 15/256 high (from 1/16) and inset from three edges of the block by 1/16.

'''[[Piston]]s'''
* Unextended pistons, downward-facing pistons, and upward-facing piston extensions are now considered to have a solid top surface, like upside-down [[stairs]] and top-half [[slab]]s.
** Among other things, this means mobs can now spawn on them.

'''[[Tripwire]] and [[tripwire hook]]s'''
* Removed the distinction between "suspended" and "non-suspended": formerly, tripwire would work only if the whole stretch and both hooks were all above solid blocks or all not above solid blocks.

'''[[Trapped chest]]'''
* Now appears in the Redstone tab of the Creative inventory instead of Decoration Blocks.

=== Items ===
'''[[Elytra]]'''
* Increased damage when flying into a wall.

'''[[Melon Slice|Melons]]'''
* Melons and glistering melons are now oriented the same way (removed in [[15w49b]]).

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Improved pathfinding
* [[Knockback (mechanic)|Knockback]] no longer apply on the Y-axis of gliding and falling entities.<ref>{{bug|MC-90549||Taking damage while gliding pushes you upwards|resolution=Fixed}}</ref>

'''[[Cave spider]]s, [[endermite]]s, [[magma cube]]s, [[silverfish]], [[slime]]s, [[spider]]s, [[wither skeleton]]s, [[zombie]]s, [[zombie pigmen]]'''
* Now fight back when hit by other mobs.

'''[[Ender dragon]]'''
* Can no longer ride anything.
* Can no longer have status effects.

'''[[Enderman]]'''
* Can no longer pick blocks from behind walls.

'''[[Horse]]'''
* Now rotates with the player.

'''[[Shulker]]'''
* No longer float above the ground.

'''[[Skeleton]]'''
* No longer find shade to hide under if equipped with a helmet.

'''[[Snow golem]]'''
* Using [[shears]] on a snow golem removes the pumpkin head (and removes 1 durability from the shears).
** The pumpkin is not dropped.

'''[[Wither]]'''
* No longer teleports through [[Nether portal]]s or [[End portal]]s.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Arrow]] entity'''
* Now take the thrower's motion into account. For example, an arrow fired forward by a player in a speeding minecart flies faster relative to the ground, an arrow fired backward flies slower, and an arrow fired sideways has motion in the direction of minecart travel.
* Arrows that bounce off a target (e.g. a shield or a sitting dragon) and may be retrieved become dropped items if near zero momentum after being bounced.

'''[[Bottles o' enchanting]], [[egg]]s, [[ender pearl]]s, [[snowball]]s, thrown [[potion]]s '''
* No longer collide with non-opaque blocks.
** Even non-opaque blocks that are solid, such as [[glass]] (see {{bug|MC-93636}}).
* Are "caught" and converted to the item form by [[cobweb]]s.
* Now take the thrower's motion into account. For example, an arrow fired forward by a player in a speeding minecart flies faster relative to the ground, an arrow fired backward fly slower, and an arrow fired sideways has motion in the direction of minecart travel.

'''<code>SmallFireball</code> entity'''
* No longer damages (or angers) fire-immune entities.

=== World generation ===
'''[[End portal]]'''
* In the 0.0000000001% chance that all 12 frame blocks generate with eyes already present, the portal is immediately activated.
** This means once again, it is possible to access [[the End]] without going to [[the Nether]].

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|playsound}} '''
* Now auto-completes itself when pressing {{key|tab}}.

'''{{cmd|particle}} '''
* Now has an optional <code>player</code> parameter to specify which players can see the particle when inside the range. When left out, everyone in range can see the particles. 
** Also added a <code>params</code> parameter to specify particle parameters (for iconcrack_, …).

'''[[Sound]] events'''
* Renamed <code>entity.arrow.successful_hit</code> to <code>entity.arrow.hit_player</code>.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Combat]]'''
* Sweep attacks now do {{hp|1}} damage to mobs affected by the knockback.
* The Infinity enchantment no longer affects spectral and tipped arrows.

'''[[Hunger#Exhaustion level increase|Exhaustion]]'''
* Sneaking now increases exhaustion by half as much as walking.

'''[[Frost Walker]] enchantment'''
* Now functions whenever the player is standing on ground, regardless of whether the ground is a solid block or not.
* No longer works on armor stands.

'''[[Lightning]]'''
* No longer destroys item frames, leash knots, paintings, and armor stands.

'''[[Status effect]]s'''
* [[Health Boost]] effect now shows multiple red hearts instead of the one similar to Regeneration.
* [[Absorption]] effect now shows a single red heart with a yellow outline around it.
* [[Nausea]] effect now stops instantly when cleared using milk or with commands.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w49a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|729|Zombies fight back only against players.
|1973|Items placed into a beacon are lost upon reloading a world.
|3626|Signs, sugar cane, vines, two-block plants and cobwebs cause glitchy mob behavior.
|7519|Clearing Nausea potion effect stops it, but purple portal tint remains.
|8017|Throwing eggs and snowballs though cobweb just hits it and breaks.
|9074|Command selector syntax does not recognize decimals.
|18272|Health Boost and Absorption effects have the same icon.
|20431|Player is floating above the saddle of a donkey.
|33863|Villagers rarely can turn to baby zombie villagers, or chicken jockey.
|38307|Lightning strike area-effect destroys item frames, paintings, and armor stands.
|39098|Endermen can pick up blocks behind walls.
|46034|Lava flows toward gaps even if they can't be reached.
|48570|Server-side resource packs do not show up in resource pack list.
|50468|Skeleton AI ignoring helmet – skeleton still stays in shadow.
|50559|Rain texture is upside-down.
|55942|Nether wart, wheat, carrot, and potato hitboxes reflect only first stage.
|63129|Baby zombies named "Dinnerbone" appear suspended in the air.
|69328|{{cmd|playsound}} not tab-completing sounds.
|69834|Metal ring misplaced at tripwire hook/does not move.
|70327|Blaze fireballs damage other blazes.
|72156|Tamed wolves attack when a wild wolf is hurt.
|72368|Cactus can be placed underwater, but doesn't break.
|73370|Trapped chests are in "Decoration Blocks".
|75471|Ocelots and rabbits run from you in Creative mode.
|76045|Clicking on a non-existing link target or deleted screenshot gives an error.
|76975|Pick block doesn't work on the dragon egg.
|77224|{{cmd|tp}} with relative x rotation above 90° affects y rotation.
|80148|Custom model lighting irregularities (top & bottom faces)/each cuboid part of a model renders smooth lighting as if it were a full block.
|80597|Lit furnace still obtainable using the {{cmd|give}} command.
|81693|Multiple items have missing (transparent) pixels.
|81725|{{key|Shift}}+{{key|F3}} menu remains on server disconnect.
|82452|Server resource packs not staying persistent.
|85963|Melon and glistering melon textures have different rotations.
|87219|Mob heads float above baby zombies that wear them.
|89399|If an End portal generates with 12 eyes in it, it is impossible to use it.
|92983|Slimes are incorrectly offset from actual position.
|93289|Level-up sound originates at position in world, not at player position.
|;From the 1.8 development versions
|62552|<code>FallingSand</code> shows alternate block textures while falling.
|70306|Can't put flower pot on piston.
|;dev
|83107|Shulkers deflect arrows from the side but not the top; arrows glitchy when shot at the edge.
|83174|Zombies, zombie pigmen, ghasts, guardians, slimes, magma cubes, wither skeletons, spiders, cave spiders, silverfish and endermites do not attack when hit by other mobs.
|83193|Punching cake eats it.
|83271|Bosses are unaffected by potions or tipped arrows.
|83599|Arrow/item in offhand is still displayed while drawing bow in first person view.
|83824|Infinity enchantment works with potion tipped arrows.
|83850|Squid and ghasts are unaffected by levitation.
|83896|Shulkers can teleport into other shulkers.
|83930|End City spawns even when "Generate Structures" is set to false.
|85117|Shulkers teleport even after they're already dead.
|85256|Cauldrons are filled with water while snowing in biomes where it snows only above a certain height.
|85756|Blocks/items on mobs' heads turn red when the mob takes damage.
|86305|<code>AreaEffectCloud</code> can be pushed by pistons.
|86385|Leading zeroes omitted in tooltip on dyed leather armor color.
|86951|Drop item scoreboard objective increases when {{cmd|give}} is used.
|86992|A shulker floats a bit above ground.
|87143|{{cmd|Setblock}} signs with text put "null" on empty lines when reloading the world.
|87242|Librarian zombie villager robe texture is sometimes white instead of transparent.
|87383|Shulker hitbox height is too high.
|87411|Zombie villager leg has transparent pixels
|87568|Slimes with levitation can move.
|87573|Spawned slimes always move south (+Z) first.
|88401|Arrow blocked by shield can get stuck above the player.
|88465|Shields still show metadata in the tooltip.
|88569|Armor slots inconsistency: {{cmd|replaceitem}} refers to 'chest' while <code>AttributeModifiers.Slot</code> refers to 'torso'.
|89181|<code>AreaEffectCloud</code> does not work with some particles, crashes with others.
|90095|Elytra goes invisible with player if potion is used.
|90417|Enderdragon can be a passenger on boats.
|90549|Taking damage while gliding pushes you upwards.
|90587|Frost Walker does not work on transparent blocks.
|90601|Using pick block on frosted ice gives a warning in the console.
|90606|Damage from hitting walls with Elytra is too small.
|91061|Loot table exceptions are not caught.
|91177|Rain puts out fires less often.
|91264|Right clicking a hoe or a shovel on grass or dirt plays the wrong sound.
|91533|Container minecarts with invalid loot table cannot be removed from world.
|91543|Multiple (unlimited) number of ender crystals placeable on one block at the same time.
|91666|Exploding creepers drop gunpowder when they set off an End crystal.
|91756|Beam target of End crystals on obsidian pillars does not update when ender dragon spawn sequence is stopped.
|91807|Having used the {{cmd|kill <nowiki>@e[type=EnderCrystal]</nowiki>}} instruction, the rebirth ceremony still continued execution.
|92202|Villagers stand outside opening and closing doors instead of entering.
|92225|Buggy AI for skeletons riding horses.
|92309|"Block Broken" closed caption is inaccurate.
|92415|Mob pathing issue – they appear to stop and travel in loops.
|92451|Beam detaching from End crystal as crystal levitates up and down.
|92548|Can't place certain blocks on marker armor stand.
|92697|Activator rails and powered rails power each other.
|92784|Some subtitles are unrelated to the sound.
|92849|Mob kills due to knockback from a sweep attack fail to reward experience.
|92972|Villagers don't go outside.
|93107|Shulkers still produce sound even when <code>Silent:1b</code>.
|93474|Players can place End crystal in Adventure mode.
|;previous
|93118|Some of the new textures' filesize is too big.
|93119|Survival player can obtain bedrock item.
|93167|Some textures jump and change rotation as the player moves closer or farther from them – easy to confirm with netherack in the Nether.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|UJe6emHOeE4}}

== Trivia ==
* 15w49a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w49a]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w49a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w49a]]
[[it:Java Edition 15w49a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w49a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w49a]]
[[ru:15w49a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w49a]]