{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft Combat Test 6
| image = Release Combat Test 6.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| parent = Combat Tests
| date = August 7, 2020
| clienthash = 4f08b4667575cbfc35e44c9556a0667bd3d0f5cc
| jsondl = [https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/5a8ceec8681ed96ab6ecb9607fb5d19c8a755559/1_16_combat-0.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
| clientmap = 185a362b6b301bfb71e12f788ce8fb998b806217
| serverhash = 1c35c493ade7a39e2d02bcc326498aaab96f1a09
| servermap = 6ddb98ca992d93fd654bf89f801223b1c4d98695
| prevparent = 
| prev = Combat Test 5
| next = Combat Test 7c
| nextparent = 
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 6''' is the sixth experimental version of a future combat revision.<ref>{{reddit|i5cvlh||Combat Test version 6|jeb_|August 7, 2020}}</ref> Although it is a development version for a future release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.16.2 Pre-release 3|1.16.2 Pre-release 3]]. This version was released only on {{w|Reddit}}, so it does not appear in the [[launcher]] or in any [[Minecraft.net]] blog post.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Axe]]s'''
* Removed other weapon [[enchantments]] from the [[enchanting table]].{{info needed|What about loot chests?}}

'''[[Bow]]s'''
* Bow and [[arrow]] accuracy now slowly decreases the longer the [[player]] keeps the bow charged.
** This is accompanied by a wobbling animation that gets progressively more intense.
* Arrows are now 100% accurate by default.{{info needed|Was this a change in an earlier test?}}

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''Projectiles'''
* [[Player]] momentum is added to thrown projectiles, but only in the direction the player is aiming.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Combat]]'''
* Entities with bounding boxes smaller than 0.9 block (such as [[rabbit]]s and [[bat]]s, for example) now have them inflated to that value.
* Increased base reach from 2.5 to 3 blocks, and removed bonus reach for delayed attacks.
* Missing an attack now only puts a 4 [[game tick]] delay until the next attack, regardless of weapon.
* Removed "Coyote Time", which was introduced in the [[Java Edition Combat Test 5|previous]] combat test.

'''[[Enchantment]]s'''
* Renamed Chopping to [[Cleaving]].
* Nerfed [[Sweeping Edge]] enchantment to 25/33/37.5% (was 50/66/75%).

'''[[HUD]]'''
* Removed the attack indicator completely, since it is no longer used by any systems.

'''[[Hunger]]'''
* Reverted eating speed to 32 ticks (1.6 seconds).
* Eating is now interrupted if something hits the [[player]].
* The player now naturally heals every {{convert|40|ticks|seconds}} instead of every {{convert|60|ticks|seconds}}.
* The player now takes damage from starvation every {{convert|40|ticks|seconds}} instead of every {{convert|60|ticks|seconds}} when the hunger bar is empty.
* Natural healing drains [[food]] points 50% slower.
* Reintroduced the rule that [[sprint]]ing requires more than 6 points of food.

'''[[Shield]]s'''
* Only protect up to 5 [[damage]] for melee attacks (still 100% against projectiles).
* Recover faster after an attack.

'''[[Weapon]]s'''
* [[Sword]]s always have sweeping attacks again, [[axe]]s have it with the [[Sweeping Edge]] enchantment.

== Fixes ==
'''From the previous development version.'''
* Fixed knockback calculation.
* Fixed damage value on items being off-by-one client-side.
* Fixed a bug that caused players to be unable to attack/interact after respawning.</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|BlHEL0iHloE}}

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[de:Combat Test 6]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 6]]
[[fr:Édition Java Test de combat 6]]
[[ja:Java Edition Combat Test 6]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 6]]
[[ru:Combat Test 6 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java Combat Test 6]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 6]]