{{conjecture}}
{{stub}}
{{Infobox development phase
|title=Late Classic
|image=Late Classic Creative.png
|startver=[[Classic 0.28]] (October 27, 2009)
|latestver=[[Classic 0.30]] (November 10, 2009)
|paid=No
|prevparent=Java Edition pre-Classic
|prev=Survival Test
|next=Java Edition Indev 0.31
|nextparent=Java Edition Indev
}}

'''Late Classic''' refers to seven versions of [[Java Edition Classic]] released from [[Java Edition Classic 0.28|October 27]] to [[Java Edition Classic 0.30|November 10]], 2009. These versions are all in [[Creative]] mode, except for the [[Survival|Survival mode]] variant of [[Classic 0.30|0.30]], but [[Survival|Survival mode]] can be enabled in all versions by modifying <code>Minecraft.class</code> in <samp>[[minecraft.jar]]</samp>.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Obsidian
}}
; Building
: Left click removes blocks and right click places blocks.
: New block: [[Obsidian]]
; [[Mob|Mobs]]
: [[Sheep]]
; [[Multiplayer]]
: Players now push each other when standing next to each other.
: Opping or deopping a player makes changes instantaneously instead of having to reload.
: Players can build through other players.
: Player tags don't appear over other players unless the mouse is hovered over them.
; [[Options]]
: Added [[rain]] toggle to [[options]].
: Added [[tree]] growing switch to <code>[[server.properties]]</code>.
; General
: Re-added [[Creative]] mode.
: The ability to save levels locally as a .mine file.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[es:Java Edition Classic Tardío]]
[[fr:Classique tardif]]
[[ja:Java Edition Late Classic]]
[[lzh:古典後創]]
[[pt:Edição Java Late Classic]]
[[ru:Late Classic Creative (Java Edition)]]
[[th:Late Classic]]
[[zh:后期创造]]