{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft 1.14.3 - Combat Test
| image = Release 1.14.3 Combat Test.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| parent = Combat Tests
| compiled = June 20, 2019
| date = June 26, 2019
| launcher = No
| clienthash = 98cb56935c762c412b64ddda8e3851544243fb2d
| jsondl = [https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/610f5c9874ba8926d5ae1bcce647e5f0e6e7c889/1_14_combat-212796.zip .json]
| serverhash = 168ae89abc66fd4ee2d84c844cd980ddae26e784
| prevparent = 1.14.3 Pre-Release 4
| next = Combat Test 2
| nextparent =
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.14.3 - Combat Test''' is the first experimental version of a [[Java Edition Combat Tests|future combat update]].<ref>{{reddit|c5mqwv||A custom Java Edition snapshot to test new combat mechanics|jeb_|June 26, 2019}}</ref> Although it is a version for a future major release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.14.3 Pre-Release 4|1.14.3 Pre-Release 4]]. This version was released only on {{w|Reddit}}, so it does not appear in the [[launcher]] or in any [[Minecraft.net]] blog post. This is the first combat test released in 2019.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Combat]]'''
* New [[attribute]]: <samp>generic.attackReach</samp>.
** Represents the attack reach of a [[player]].
** Only used by players.
** Default base: <samp>3.0</samp>; minimum: <samp>0.0</samp>; maximum: <samp>6.0</samp>.
*** Value is the number of [[block]]s away the player can attack from.
** [[Attribute#Vanilla modifiers|Weapon modifier]] now modifies <samp>generic.attackReach</samp> with Operation <samp>0</samp> and UUID <samp>26cb07a3-209d-4110-8e10-1010243614c8</samp>.
* Added a "Combat Reach" parameter (using attribute <samp>generic.attackReach</samp>) to [[sword]]s, [[hoe]]s and [[trident]]s.

== Changes ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Combat]]'''
* [[Player]]s can now only attack when the [[weapon]] is fully charged.
* Different weapons and items have different attack ranges, all separate from the [[Breaking#Reach|block breaking reach]].
** 3.5 [[block]]s for all [[sword]]s.
** 4 blocks for [[trident]]s and [[hoe]]s.
** 3 for all other [[item]]s.
* The attack timer can be charged to 200%.
** The attack timer reaches 200% after the recharging animation of the sword is fully complete.
** A 200% charge is required for critical hits and the sweeping attack.
** A 200% charge also deals higher knockback while [[sprinting]]. 
* Weapons with shorter cooldowns give victims shorter [[Damage#Immunity|attack invulnerability time]]s (invincibility frames).
* The {{ctrl|attack}} control can now be held down, attacking whenever the attack cooldown reaches 100%.
* It is now possible to hit [[mob]]s through non-full-sized [[block]]s such as [[grass]].

'''[[HUD]]'''
* Changed how the attack indicator works.
** When on crosshair mode:
*** The meter only appears after the attack is 100% recharged, showing the progress of reaching 200% charge instead.
*** The "+" now only appears below the attack indicator when at 200% charge.
** When on hotbar mode:
*** The meter only appears while charging the initial 100%.

'''Sweep attack'''
* Performing a sweep attack now requires the [[Sweeping Edge]] enchantment.
* Now requires the attack timer to be at 200%.
* Is now performed regardless of whether an [[entity]] is hit.

=== Items ===
'''[[Axe]]s'''
* Increased [[attack speed]] for all axes to 2.
* All axes deal {{hp|1}} more [[damage]] than their [[sword]] counterparts.
* Attack reach remains at 3 [[block]]s.

'''[[Hoe]]s'''
* Changed the attack speed for most hoes:
** Wooden: 2; stone: 2.5; diamond and gold: 3.5.
* Changed the [[damage]] dealt for all hoes:
** Wooden, stone, and gold: {{hp|2}}; iron and diamond: {{hp|3}}.
* Increased attack reach to 4 [[block]]s.

'''[[Pickaxe]]s'''
* Increased attack speed for all pickaxes to 2.5.
* Increased [[damage]] for all pickaxes by {{hp|1}}.
* Attack reach remains at 3 [[block]]s.

'''[[Shield]]'''
* Critical hits bypass shields.
* Removed warm-up delay from shields (0.25 second activation cooldown).
* When in the off-hand, shields activate when [[sneaking]].
* Shields no longer knockback attackers when they block.

'''[[Shovel]]s'''
* Increased attack speed for all shovels to 2.
* Decreased [[damage]] for all shovels by {{hp|1}}.
* Attack reach remains at 3 [[block]]s.

'''[[Sword]]s'''
* Increased attack speed for all swords to 3.
* Increased [[damage]] for all swords by {{hp|1}}.
* Increased attack reach to 3.5 [[block]]s.

'''[[Trident]]'''
* Increased attack speed to 2.
* Decreased base [[damage]] from {{hp|9}} to {{hp|7}}.
* Increased attack reach to 4 [[block]]s.

{| class="wikitable"
!rowspan=2 | Tool
!colspan=2 | Axe
!colspan=2 | Hoe
!colspan=2 | Pickaxe
!colspan=2 | Shovel
!colspan=2 | Sword
|-
!Damage
!Speed
!Damage
!Speed
!Damage
!Speed
!Damage
!Speed
!Damage
!Speed
|-
!Wood
|{{hp|6}}
|2
|{{hp|2}}
|2
|{{hp|3}}
|2.5
|{{hp|2}}
|2
|{{hp|5}}
|3
|-
!Gold
|{{hp|6}}
|2
|{{hp|2}}
|3.5
|{{hp|3}}
|2.5
|{{hp|2}}
|2
|{{hp|5}}
|3
|-
!Stone
|{{hp|7}}
|2
|{{hp|2}}
|2.5
|{{hp|4}}
|2.5
|{{hp|3}}
|2
|{{hp|6}}
|3
|-
!Iron
|{{hp|8}}
|2
|{{hp|3}}
|3
|{{hp|5}}
|2.5
|{{hp|4}}
|2
|{{hp|7}}
|3
|-
!Diamond
|{{hp|9}}
|2
|{{hp|3}}
|3.5
|{{hp|6}}
|2.5
|{{hp|5}}
|2
|{{hp|8}}
|3
|}
</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|DNLa4v7sB_U}}

== Issues ==
This version is not supported on the [[bug tracker]], and as such issues relating to this version will not be fixed.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[cs:Java Edice 1.14.3 - Combat Test]]
[[de:1.14.3 - Combat Test]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.14.3 - Combat Test]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.14.3 - Test de combat]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.14.3 - Combat Test]]
[[ko:Java Edition 1.14.3 - 전투 테스트]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.14.3 - Combat Test]]
[[ru:1.14.3 - Combat Test (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 1.14.3 - Combat Test]]
[[uk:1.14.3 - Combat Test (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.14.3 - Combat Test]]