{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 13w04a
|image=13w04a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 13w04a.png
|edition=java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.5
|date=January 24, 2013
|clientdl=
[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.5/pre/13w04a.jar Client] ([https://meta.omniarchive.uk/versions/v1/13w04a.json .json])<br/> [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.5/pre/13w04a-whitelinefix.jar Experimental client] ([https://meta.omniarchive.uk/versions/v1/13w04a-whitelinefix.json .json])
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.5/pre/13w04a.jar Server]
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.5/pre/13w04a.exe .exe][[Category:Versions using legacy download site]]
|prevparent=1.4.7
|prev=13w03a
|next=13w05a
|nextparent=1.5.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''13w04a''' is the sixth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.5]], released on January 24, 2013.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20130126020104/http://www.mojang.com/2013/01/minecraft-snapshot-13w04a/</ref>

An experimental version of 13w04a was released by [[Dinnerbone]] on [[Mojira]] to try and fix a white line bug.<ref>[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-1794?focusedCommentId=40630#comment-40630 MC-1794 (comment 40630)] – Nathan Adams on Mojira, January 28, 2013.</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Mobs now show the name given to them, either by renaming their [[spawn egg]] on an [[anvil]] or by external editors, above their head when the player looks directly at them within a circular 6 block radius.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Scoreboard]]'''
* A new [[command]] feature.
* Not 100% done yet.
* The scoreboard can be used to track deaths, players killing another player, players killing something a mob, or players activating commands.
* The complicated system uses a combination of name, display name, and criteria, and track an integer number of points for players.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Command block]]s'''
* Now use their name instead of @ in the chat.

'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Now can face in all directions.
* Now equip players with [[armor]] from one block away.
* They now activate [[TNT]].
* They now use bone meal.
* They now use [[flint and steel]].
** This accurately decreases the [[durability]] of the tool.

'''[[Dropper]]s'''
* Now can face in all directions.

'''[[Redstone comparator]]s '''
* Can now be used with [[jukebox]]es.
* Output signal strength relates to the disk number.

'''[[Slab]]s'''
* 43:8 is now the "smooth stone full half-slab block".
* In general, if the top bit is set, the top texture is used on all sides, also allowing for smooth sandstone full half-slab blocks (43:9).

=== Items ===
'''[[Armor]]'''
* Held armor can be equipped by right-clicking.
** In this particular snapshot, this functionality is very faulty, prone to crashing and incorrect slot usage. 
** It will be fixed in the next snapshot.

'''[[Bone meal]]'''
* No longer gives instant growth – instead, each use advances one growth stage:
** [[Wheat seeds]] require seven bone meal.
** [[Sapling]]s and [[cocoa beans]] require two bone meal to grow into [[tree]]s and cocoa pods, respectively.
** Brown and red [[mushroom]]s still grow into [[huge mushroom]]s instantly.
* Gives off green particles when used.
* ''Note: Dinnerbone has stated that he still has to balance out this new bonemeal growth system.''<ref>{{tweet|dinnerbone|294890450853167105}}</ref>

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Mobs don't actively path over rails.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Creative]]'''
* The player can now hit mobs/players from five blocks away.
** This does not apply to [[Survival]] and [[Adventure]] mode, retaining the normal range.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=13w04a|prefix=Snapshot
|;old
|127|Piston extended and retracted at the same time.
|195|Flowing water still drags the player while flying.
|515|Chest glitch that lets them appear as if they are opened while they are not.
|519|Achievements lost after update.
|562|Breeding cows can consume more than one wheat.
|835|In the server log, {{cmd|say}} commands performed by the server do not appear to be in the console but do appear to the players.
|1914|Mob spawners sometimes show up as pig spawners.
|2503|Boats and minecarts should not be dropped in Creative.
|3316|Armor enchantments (besides Thorns) have no effect on mobs.
|3981|Dispensers no longer dispense item through blocks in the downward direction.
|4052|Powered redstone mechanisms react to change in redstone power level.
|;dev
|5742|Redstone signals shortened by devices that output a shorter signal.
|6069|Server loading issue.
|6118|Monostable circuits only work in a North/South configuration.
|6228|Hopper doesn't accept items from second slot when container has different items in first slot.
|6486|Variable redstone strength causing strange update behavior.
|6779|Particle effects are messed up again...
|6851|Doorhandle position is in the wrong place.
|6906|Chest minecart won't deposit items in hoppers while moving.
|6952|Iron door stays powered when retrieving the redstone block.
|;previous
|7619|If a minecart with hopper falls into the Void, the game will crash.
|7627|Changing the texture pack in game renders strange.
|7663|Hopper minecart behaves like they are on powered activator rail if they never touched one.
|7668|Using pick block on Minecart with TNT or hopper gives you just a minecart.
|7940|Wrong death message of renamed mobs spawned by dispensers.
|8042|Minecart with hopper is not placed on rail.
}}</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.5 development versions]]

[[de:13w04a]]
[[es:Java Edition 13w04a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 13w04a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 13w04a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 13w04a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 13w04a]]
[[ru:13w04a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版13w04a]]