{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 18w47b
|image=18w47a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 18w47b.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=November 23, 2018
|clienthash=1174ad74afce51a9309f1293af5bf24f60609cee
|jsonhash=d15cf2a1911c51c3409e955dd8614cf21a1a49eb
|serverhash=fa9d22eea98b62f6663f1aa8a25840e0993485e6
|parent=1.14
|prevparent=1.13.2
|prev=18w47a
|next=18w48a
|nextparent=1.14.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''18w47b''' is the eighth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.14]], released on November 23, 2018<ref>{{snap|18w47b|November 23, 2018}}</ref>, which improves world generation performance and changes the textures of more blocks and items.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Client.jar]]'''
* Added a <samp>version.json</samp> file to the root of client.jar, which lists information such as [[data version]], [[protocol version]], [[data pack]] version, parent version, build date and time, and whether it is a stable build.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]]'''
* <code>facing{{=}}south</code> [[block state]] texture has been changed.

'''Impulse and repeating [[command block]]s'''
* Textures have been changed.

'''[[Log]]s '''
* Top texture of normal and [[stripped log]]s have been changed.

'''Spruce [[door]] and [[trapdoor]]'''
* Textures have been changed.

=== Items ===
'''[[Raw cod]]'''
* Reverted the texture changes back to the [[Java Edition 1.13|1.13]] version.

'''[[Cooked cod]]'''
* Changed the texture to be similar to the [[Java Edition 1.13|1.13]] texture.

=== Mobs ===
* Adjusted [[mob]] spawning behavior to be closer to [[Java Edition 1.13.2]] behavior.

'''[[Cat]]'''
* The tuxedo cat's texture has been changed.

=== General ===
'''Performance'''
* Numerous world generation performance improvements.

'''[[Texture]]s'''
* Changed the textures of more [[block]]s and [[item]]s.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=18w47b|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|137746|Crash when generating at exactly the top of the world
|;dev
|137565|Cod and cooked cod item uses old texture
|138043|Poppy textures has spines
|138337|Mobs don't spawn above highest generated block
|138566|Barrels facing south have a rotated front texture
|138709|Tuxedo cat texture issue
|139183|New command block textures
|139270|Loading structures with less than full structure integrity loads nothing or everything
|139401|Pistons are no longer (redstone) transparent
|139497|Can't place rails, redstone, and other blocks that need a solid block below on Soulsand
|139678|Fish are no longer spawning in water.
|;previous
|139693|Blocks appear elsewhere in the world when they update
|139722|Vindicators now have green eyes
|139764|World generation logs warning {{code|"Empty or none existent pool : minecraft:empty"}}
|139818|Pillager outposts spawn absurd amounts of pillagers
|139829|Illager patrol won't follow the leader
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|vPvSb8-Ng-U}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:18w47b]]
[[es:Java Edition 18w47b]]
[[fr:Édition Java 18w47b]]
[[ja:Java Edition 18w47b]]
[[lzh:一八週四七乙]]
[[pt:Edição Java 18w47b]]
[[ru:18w47b (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 18w47b]]
[[zh:Java版18w47b]]