{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 19w04a
|image=19w04a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 19w04a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=January 24, 2019
|clienthash=4a075e5ceae3fc15efd36222daeb832c94e16946
|jsonhash=49a754e11683174087e94d273a453e995fc97eae
|serverhash=261edfd76c32c9f675c12264b6fa03f670c3325c
|parent=1.14
|prevparent=1.13.2
|prev=19w03c
|next=19w04b
|nextparent=1.14.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''19w04a''' is the seventeenth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.14]], released on January 24, 2019,<ref>{{snap|19w04a|January 24, 2019}}</ref> which changes village generation.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Campfire]]s'''
* Now generate in taiga villages.
** Can be found on the ground.
* Can be used as signal campfires.

'''[[Composter]]s'''
* Now generate in village farms.

'''[[Scaffolding]]'''
* More intuitive placement: placing a floating scaffolding requires the player sneaking to place the scaffolding or scaffolding is placed on the top instead.
* The player can no longer place scaffolding where they or another entity are standing.

'''[[Stonecutter]]s'''
* Can now be crafted with 3 [[stone]] blocks and 1 [[iron ingot]].
* Can now be used as a simpler way to craft various stone variants (stairs, slabs, bricks, walls, chiseled, etc).
** From cobblestone, all types of stone and polished stone, sandstone, brick and nether bricks, quartz, all types of prismarine, end stone and end stone bricks and mossy variants.
* Sound effect added for crafting blocks with stonecutter.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Zombie village]]s'''
* Updated desert and taiga zombie villages.

'''[[Taiga]] [[village]]s'''
* Added 1 new building which contains a chimney with a lit campfire inside.
** Butcher houses also have a chimney with a lit campfire inside.

=== General ===
'''World generation'''
* New progress message: "Upgrading structure data".

'''Miscellaneous'''
* Improved collision code.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=19w04a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|56562|Player can walk through worldborder when set to less than 3 if already outside of the border.
|;dev
|137441|{{cd|progress.working}} shows on entering world.
|138361|The player falls through detracting pistons.
|138565|Stonecutter don't change their alignment based on player look direction.
|140930|Hat layer on player heads is offset.
|141901|Unlit campfires still hurt players that stand on them.
|141913|Sneaking on a campfire prevents damage.
|142091|Campfire deals damage to entities that are not touching it.
|142231|Scaffolding does not show on maps.
|142458|Unlit campfire texture partially missing.
|142486|When a player uses {{cmd|summon}} command with a wrong entity ID, they will summon a pig.
|142528|Commands using {{cd|@e[type{{=}}]}} on chat have broken autofilling.
|142567|Replacing lava with campfire creates unlit campfire.
|142568|Pushing a level 7 compost will make it not able to compost their contents.
|142608|Lightning doesn't appear.
|142621|"Invalid book tag" is not translatable.
|142762|When the player has a full inventory, taking the book from the lectern deletes the book.
|;previous
|142698|Locking maps can duplicate them.
|142763|Clicking recipes in Blast Furnace and Smoker deletes output.
|142766|Clicking a recipe in blast furnace/smoker returns fuel to inventory and resets cook progress.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|2UeaQtsNHAk}}

== Trivia ==
* Unlike most first-of-the-week snapshots, this was released on a Thursday instead of Wednesday, similar to the snapshots before [[14w26a]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:19w04a]]
[[es:Java Edition 19w04a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 19w04a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 19w04a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 19w04a]]
[[ru:19w04a (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 19w04a]]
[[zh:Java版19w04a]]