{{for|the seventh released Combat Test|Combat Test 7c}}
{{unreleased version|private=y|available=y}}
{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft Combat Test 7
| image = Java Edition Combat Test 7.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| parent = Combat Test 7c
| date = August 12, 2020
| clienthash = 3ad450f458149702ec3dd7655af44ab422a83e72
| jsondl = [https://archive.org/download/Combat_Test_7ab/1_16_combat-1.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
| clientmap = 050cccf384543060a95fe9c773b4db4922a7b16d
| serverhash = ee1c898661f5342d52c6e0cdee0bec99f3f60910
| servermap = 28aa23fa4ed247f59ad9317cff635432473ab4cb
| prevparent = Combat Test 6 
| next = Combat Test 7b
| nextparent = Combat Test 8b
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 7''' is a development version for [[Combat Test 7c]] released on August 12, 2020, for private testing. This combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.16.2|1.16.2]].

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Axe]]s'''
* [[Sword]] enchantments can now be applied to axes with the help of a book in an [[anvil]], but still not in an [[enchanting table]].

'''[[Potion]]s'''
* Now stack to 16.

=== Gameplay ===
'''Attacking'''
* Reintroduced the reach bonus for charged attacks ("200% attacks").<ref group=note name=attacks>Reason given by [[Jeb]]: "''Feedback from PvP players was that it added a tactical layer and options when fighting. Since the charged attacks were reintroduced, I had to redesign how the "quick misses" work. A miss will not count as a charged attack - you need to wait for the full duration of the weapon's original delay. Because of code organization, the penalty for auto-attacking is now specifically 1 tick, instead of 20% of the current weapon's delay. Note: Base reach is still 3, it has not been reverted to 2.5 as in v5.''"</ref>
* Reverted how the sweep attack works.<ref group=note name=attacks />
** Now requires the enchantment and a charged attack.
* Reintroduced the attack indicator.
* Removed the reach bonus for charged attacks when the attacker is crouching.

'''[[Bow]]s'''
* Reverted the bow inaccuracy mechanic.<ref group=note>Reason given by [[Jeb]]: "''Every feature adds complexity and this didn't have enough payoff in either PvP or PvE. The feedback was also that the mechanic was inverted (accuracy should increase the longer you aim), but that way the game would get too slow''".</ref>

'''[[Eating]]'''
* Reverted eating being interrupted when the player takes damage.<ref group=note>Reason given by [[Jeb]]: "''I liked the interruption mechanic, but it was inconsistent. Particularly since honey bottles also are drinkable (with fairly high nutrition value)''".</ref>

'''[[Shield]]'''
* Now activates instantaneously in all cases.
* Now fully blocks explosions.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed netherite damage values as they previously still used 1.15 values.
* Fixed a speed bug when crouching with a shield.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[Category: Private development versions]]

[[de:Combat Test 7]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 7]]
[[fr:Édition Java Test de combat 7]]
[[ja:Java Edition Combat Test 7]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 7]]
[[ru:Combat Test 7 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java Combat Test 7]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 7]]