{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.16.4 Pre-release 2
|image=1.16.4-pre2.png
|image2=Java Edition 1.16.4 Pre-release 2.png
|edition=Java
|type=Pre-release
|date=October 22, 2020
|clienthash=0bc552bc3c6516a5831fd365c0cc35e65df2aa01
|jsonhash=7a887ee8a022e476bfd8dbee9856dffcbd20fcef
|jsonfile=1.16.4-pre2
|serverhash=ceb412d94900167f519100736bc5709853b50b8c
|clientmap=89f8af522cd3cfd0908217b1525d883e61145750
|servermap=dedd2cf8e179614f7d3145ab5aa6ae6b11b7e3f5
|parent=1.16.4
|prev=1.16.4 Pre-release 1
|prevparent=1.16.3
|next=1.16.4 Release Candidate 1
|nextparent=1.16.5
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.16.4 Pre-release 2''' (known as '''1.16.4-pre2''' in the [[launcher]]) is the second and final pre-release for [[Java Edition 1.16.4]], released on October 22, 2020,<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-16-4-pre-release-2|Minecraft 1.16.4 Pre-release 2|October 22, 2020}}</ref> which changes some features related to server, accessibility, splashes, and fixes bugs. This is the final pre-release released in 2020.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''Accounts'''
* When logging in with a Microsoft account, players blocked in that account are now also blocked in the game, and account restrictions are now respected.

'''Accessibility'''
* A button to open a link to the accessibility guide can now be found in the "Accessibility Options" screen.

'''[[Multiplayer]]'''
* When the server and client version are incompatible, a red message is shown instead of the dark red message.
* When multiplayer is disabled, the message displayed now reads, "Multiplayer is disabled. Please check your Microsoft account settings." instead of "Multiplayer is disabled. Please check your launcher settings."

'''[[Social Interactions]]'''
* The status of a player is now listed below their name on the social interactions screen.
* A new tab is available to filter by blocked players in the social interactions screen.
* Chat from blocked players is always hidden.
* Realms invites from blocked players are hidden.
* Changed and removed the textures of a few UI elements on the social interactions screen.

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* The splashes relating to the Black Lives Matter movement have been added to {{mono|splashes.txt}}. These splashes were added to the game via a launcher update during [[Java Edition 1.16.1|1.16.2]] but were not in {{mono|splashes.txt}}. The splashes are:
** Black lives matter!
** Be anti-racist!
** Learn about allyship!
** Speak OUT against injustice and UP for equality!
** Amplify and listen to [[wikipedia:BIPOC|BIPOC]] voices!
** Educate your friends on anti-racism!
** Support the BIPOC community and creators!
** Stand up for equality in your community!

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|fixedin=1.16.4 Pre-release 2
|;From 1.16.3
|201885|Divide-by-zero error in the ender dragon entity class can cause a server crash and infinite velocity
|;prev
|202134|Opening Social Interactions menu does not update player appearances if the player is in Spectator mode.
|202136|Social Interaction toast icon does not render properly with Programmer Art resource pack.
|202137|Social Interaction screen says "players" for one player.
|202143|Social Interactions search bar does not stay selected when switching tabs, although the cursor remains.
|202145|Opening the Social Interactions menu in a singleplayer world open to LAN after attempting to join an outdated multiplayer server displays the name of the outdated server instead of the name of the current world.
|202147|Cursor in Social Interactions, recipe book, and anvil menu does not blink.
|202150|Slider bar on social menu appears broken.
|202155|Outdated server warn text does not actually exist.
|202156|Social Interactions search box entries can go out of the box.
|202157|Hidden players' X in Social Interactions are not vertically centered.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|l_zMtL-jEp8}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.16.4-pre2]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.16.4 Pre-release 2]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.16.4 Pre-release 2]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.16.4 Pre-release 2]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.16.4 Pre-release 2]]
[[ru:1.16.4 Pre-release 2 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.16.4-pre2]]