{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.21.5 Pre-Release 1
|image=1.21.5-pre1.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 1.21.5 Pre-Release 1.png
|edition=Java
|type=Pre-release
|date=March 11, 2025
|jsonhash=95d86e05c61b1b8fbaa589aecd909a28f5563629 |jsonfile=1.21.5-pre1
|clienthash=8b708817d1997e46bcdd03bdf106533d05ff1bfa
|clientmap=bbbdc77f9732e640f6a6d91de87a3836a93ce1b9
|serverhash=b663ce11b5951546a74947c1896e0d4713188833
|servermap=cdfaeb62e5d35aeeaa0c648fdd8dc28309791377
|parent=1.21.5
|prevparent=1.21.4
|prev=25w10a
|next=1.21.5 Pre-release 2
|nextparent=1.21.6
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.21.5 Pre-Release 1''' (known as '''1.21.5-pre1''' in the [[launcher]]) is the first pre-release for [[Java Edition 1.21.5]], released on March 11, 2025.<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-21-5-pre-release-1|Minecraft 1.21.5 Pre-Release 1|March 11, 2025}}</ref> This is the first pre-release released in 2025.

== Changes ==

=== Items ===
'''[[Spawn eggs]]'''
* Added textures for [[Programmer Art]] resource pack.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Fallen tree]]s'''
* The longer versions of fallen birch trees now generate properly.
** This version is up to 15 blocks long, as opposed to the shorter version which can only reach 8 blocks at most.

=== Command format ===
'''General'''
* Arguments in commands that accept inline values like loot tables, predicates, modifiers, data components, formatted text ({{cmd|loot}}, {{cmd|give}}, {{cmd|tellraw}}, {{cmd|execute if predicate}}, data components in {{cmd|execute if items}}, etc.) have been reverted to accept numbers in place of booleans.

=== General ===
'''Network protocol'''
* The client-bound {{cd|player_chat}} packet now contains an index increasing for every message sent to the client.
** The index starts at 0 when logging in (or is reset by configuration phase and the {{cd|login}} packet).
** For every message, the server should increment this value by 1.
** If this value updates in an unexpected way, the client will disconnect.
** As the protocol requires that every chat packet reaches the client in produced order, the goal is to enable faster detection of missed/reordered chat messages for custom server developers.
* The server-bound {{cd|chat}} and {{cd|chat_command_signed}} packets now contain a checksum byte along with the 'last seen' update.
** This is a simple hash of the 'last seen' signatures which should be reconstructed by the server, allowing quicker detection of desynchronized state.
** This can be passed as {{cd|0}} to disable the check, for compatibility with protocol translation.

'''[[Resource pack]]'''
* The version is now {{cd|55}}.
* Tweaked [[leaf litter]] block models.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MC|fixedin=1.21.5 Pre-release 1
|;From released versions before 1.21
|170134|Minecraft uses several times more VRAM than needed after exploring terrain for a while.
|;From the 1.21.5 development versions
|279350|Leaf litter multipart model system is unoptimized, causing render lag.
|280141|Baby farm animals from spawn eggs with a variant differing from the parent flash the wrong variant initially.
|280241|Cold Cows have improperly mirrored and incorrectly aligned ear textures.
|280249|Spawn eggs don't use their old textures with the Programmer Art resource pack enabled.
|280278|Sheep wool uses 1.14 texture with Programmer Art resource pack enabled.
|280326|When teleporting across dimensions an error is often thrown.
|280361|When a fallen tree replaces the bottom half of tall vegetation, the top part of the vegetation still generates.
|;From the previous development version
|280474|TNT minecarts explode regardless of {{cd|tntExplodes}} gamerule.
|280477|TNT still explodes when summoned or dispensed while {{cd|tntExplodes}} gamerule is false.
|280479|TNT is completely deleted when attempting to ignite it using redstone pulses when the "{{cd|tntExplodes}}" gamerule is disabled.
|280480|No flint and steel clicking sound when attempting to ignite. TNT with a flint and steel when the "{{cd|tntExplodes}}" gamerule is disabled.
|280493|If the {{cd|tntExplodes}} game rule is changed to false while primed TNT already exists in the world, the primed TNT explodes as normal.
|280501|The "Fire extinguishes" sound plays every game tick while on fire in rain.
|280520|{{cd|ItemDropChance}} on an item frame is not serialized when there is no item anymore, leading to inconsistencies.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|DIUd4fWkm3Y}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:1.21.5-pre1]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.21.5 Pre-Release 1]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.21.5 Pre-Release 1]]
[[ja:Java_Edition_1.21.5_Pre-Release_1]]
[[ko:Java Edition 1.21.5 프리릴리스 1]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.21.5 Pre-Release 1]]
[[ru:1.21.5 Pre-Release 1 (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:1.21.5 Pre-Release 1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.21.5-pre1]]