{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 25w18a
|image=25w18a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 25w18a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=April 29, 2025
|jsonhash=bd2117b93cd09033f0e0b377b4f7e00efd5a8bba
|clienthash=d3dd4330832a796188a99c032bd0bdc6f18034c2
|clientmap=1aaf5dbd73e37c32fd5dc8aa51d2ca64d4694ea9
|serverhash=e69d69f1817f6c52f6ad2ca73ee1ef8a6903e560
|servermap=63254635d6008f916e7db73a86ebc5c9441e1ea9
|parent=1.21.6
|prevparent=1.21.5
|prev= 25w17a
|next= 25w19a
|nextparent=1.21.7
}}<onlyinclude>

'''25w18a''' is the fourth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.21.6]] released on April 29, 2025.<ref>{{snap|25w18a|id=a|April 29, 2025}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Dried ghast]]'''
* The [[bone block]] in the recipe has been replaced with [[soul sand]].
{{crafting
|A1 = Ghast Tear
|B1 = Ghast Tear
|C1 = Ghast Tear
|A2 = Ghast Tear
|B2 = Soul Sand
|C2 = Ghast Tear
|A3 = Ghast Tear
|B3 = Ghast Tear
|C3 = Ghast Tear
|Output = Dried Ghast
|ignoreusage = 1
}}

'''[[Lead]]'''
* The [[slimeball]] in the recipe has been replaced with a [[string]].
** This is to make the recipe easier to craft for players.
{{crafting
|A1=String |B1=String
|A2=String |B2=String
|C3=String
|Output=Lead,2
|ignoreusage = 1
}}

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Bartering]]'''
* [[Piglin]]s can now give [[dried ghast]] blocks when [[bartered]] with.

'''[[Splash potion]]'''
* Splash potions distance to affected entities now depends on the closest distance between the entity hitbox and the splash potion hitbox where it landed.
** If an entity is hit directly by the splash potion, it will receive the full effect of the potion.
** If the entities are grouped together, they will receive the same effect strength.

=== General ===
'''[[Data pack]]'''
* The [[pack format]] version is now {{cd|75}}.

'''[[Entity data]]'''
* Added <code>home_pos</code> and <code>home_radius</code> fields to all mobs.
** Mobs with set home position will limit their pathfinding to stay within the indicated area.
** Some mobs, like [[bat]]s, [[slime]]s, [[magma cube]]s, [[phantom]]s and [[ender dragon]]s may ignore it.
** Interacting with leashes or riding may change the home position of the mob.

'''[[Font]]s'''
* <code>uniform</code> font has been updated to use Unifont 16.0.03.
* Added previously omitted Unifont glyphs for Private Use Areas.
** Those glyphs are loaded as a separate sub-font {{cd|minecraft:include/unifont_pua}} and are not included in any normally used font.
** Characters in those areas are managed by Under-CSUR (Under-ConScript Unicode Registry), which adds various scripts not present in official Unicode set, like Tengwar or Sitelen Pona.
* Unihex Font Provider
** Field {{cd|size_overrides}} is now optional (defaults to empty list).

'''[[Resource pack]]'''
* The version is now {{cd|59}}.
* All JSON files (in worlds, packs, configuration, etc.) are now parsed in strict mode.
* The {{cd|hud/locator_bar_arrow_up}} and {{cd|hud/locator_bar_arrow_down}} sprites are now animated with a standard {{cd|animation}} definition in the corresponding {{cd|.mcmeta}} files.

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Updated the <code>#followable_friendly_mobs</code> entity tag to include the [[happy ghast]].

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MC|fixedin=25w18a
|;From released versions before 1.21
|200925|Ghasts are not affected by potions thrown on their head.
|262268|Keyboard navigation does not work in the book and quill GUI.
|264431|{{cd|#minecraft:sand}} tag has two {{cd|minecraft:suspicious_sand}}.
|;From 1.21.3
|278459|{{cd|unifont.json}} contains trailing comma.
|;From 1.21.4
|279284|Experience orbs from thrown bottles o' enchanting are very prone to getting stuck inside blocks.
|;From 1.21.5
|279875|Cannot diagonally climb slab through suspended scaffolding.
|280281|Fishing bobbers rapidly jitter when attached to entities that are moving.
|280502|Translation key {{cd|snbt.parser.undescore_not_allowed}} has a typo.
|295879|Sprint-hitting boats and then getting in them causes the boat to fall through the block underneath.
|295914|Loot table files accept invalid JSON.
|296784|The "Welcome to Minecraft" screen is missing its fade out.
|296866|Predicates of particular namespaces failed to be accessed on {{cmd|execute}}.
|;dev
|296354|Happy ghasts aren’t affected by potions thrown on their heads.
|296898|Happy ghasts' home slightly drift over time.
|;prev
|297112|You cannot use {{Key|CTRL+NUM}} to navigate to tabs within the configure realms menu.
|297114|The realms menu incorrectly claims that realms are expiring soon.
|297115|The “This is a Snapshot Realm…” box no longer renders with a black background.
|297184|'Realms' is lowercase in {{cd|mco.errorMessage.realmsService.configurationError}}..
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|fxOI_62Zrss|u2QcIMQ3VPo}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:25w18a]]
[[es:Java Edition 25w18a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 25w18a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 25w18a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 25w18a]]
[[lzh:二五週一八甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java 25w18a]]
[[ru:25w18a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:25w18a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版25w18a]]