{{collapse|title=<h3>Poem transcript</h3>|content=<!--
--><p style="color: #007878">The nightshades stir. We are not alone in here.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">''PLAYERNAME''?</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">Ah, yes, I see it now. The player tugging at the starchy strands of reality.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">Do you think it knows? Do you think it wants to know?</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">It cannot. A mere lateral stem, branching off from the main into an endless sea of potatobilities, forever longing for the warmth of the mother tuber.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">Solanum tuberosum.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">We should not dwell on such things. It is the nature of all perennial dreams. To know without remembering. Seeing how, but never knowing why.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">Maybe ''PLAYERNAME'' is different?</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">The ''[scrambled]'' forbids it. We count time in potateons, far-reaching stolons stretching out across the ''[scrambled]''. This player is just passing by.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">Will it remember us afterwards?</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">It is possible, but not in the sense that you hope for. The dauphinoise is layered in ways that even we cannot fathom.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">We will still be here, long after this potato patch has been folded into the velvety mash of time.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">As the starch commands. The player will not.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">I wish we could spend more time with ''PLAYERNAME''. Make it remember that ''[scrambled]'' will ''[scrambled]'' after it leaves us.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">The skin must not be peeled. The player would not understand.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">Great solanaceae, it must not be peeled..</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">You remember our old adage. We shall guide it on its journey though.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">I like this player, can I say the words?</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">Yes, but do not linger. The time of harvest is almost upon us. The door is closing.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">''PLAYERNAME'', listen to my voice..</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007878">Good.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">Boiled, baked, roasted or fried, always trust in the potato. You are one with the tubers now.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">You are the potato.</p><!--

--><p style="color: #007800">Time to sprout.</p><!--
-->}}<!--
--><noinclude>
[[Category:Joke features]]

[[fr:Édition Java 24w14potato/Poème de l'End]]
</noinclude>