{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 15w32c
|edition=Java
|image=15w32a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 15w32c.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=August 7, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=160d90035f2032db8bced2c1490b7c47d274c382
|jsonhash=79372029c5f7164c4106b3445c6a72fd89b91641
|serverhash=6bef1fd3f1cb34b1d6654d93c43abb899072bd24
|exehash=09e8115b0969fe114c19b54062d59add398164d9
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w32b
|next=15w33a
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''15w32c''' is the sixth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on August 7, 2015<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2015/08/minecraft-snapshot-15w32a/</ref> to fix some bugs from [[15w32a]] and [[15w32b]], along with changing some aspects of the game.

== Changes ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[End ship]]s'''
* No longer generate with a [[beacon]].
** Replaced by a [[pumpkin]].
* Now generate with a [[dragon head]] at the bow of the ship, meaning dragon heads are now available in [[Survival mode]].

=== Command format ===
'''[[NBT format]]'''
* Introduced a limit on the amount of tags an entity can have (1024 tags).
** When surpassed it displays an error saying: "Cannot add more than 1024 tags to an entity."

=== General ===
'''[[Particles]]'''
* Are no longer entities.
** Reduces memory usage to increase performance.
* Increased range and count limit.
** Specifically the count limit is (always) 16384 particles now (seen next to the P in the [[F3|F3-menu]]).
** The range limit is 32 blocks (when the command {{cmd|particle}} is used along with the <code>force</code> mode, the limit is 512 blocks). 

'''World selection screen'''
* When the edit button is clicked, there are two new options:
** Reset icon: This allows the player to delete the icon without going into the save folder.
** Open folder: This opens up the world folder, under <code>.minecraft</code>.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w32c|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|4491|Cast fishing rod looks like stick in 3rd person.
|;dev
|83136|Spawning a shulker spawns 2 of them.
|85242|Armor stands with "<code>EntityTag</code>" don't spawn.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|rKh3gmLpv8I}}

== Trivia ==
* This version was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w32c]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w32c]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w32c]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w32c]]
[[lzh:一五週三二丙]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w32c]]
[[ru:15w32c (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w32c]]