{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft Combat Test 8b
| image = Java Edition Combat Test 8b.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| parent = Combat Tests
| date = August 21, 2020
| clienthash = 123cf1bd6736a3c1a47e8c1727a3db18e3c9cace
| jsondl = [https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/9b2b984d635d373564b50803807225c75d7fd447/1_16_combat-5.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
| clientmap = 8d09f244923d77e27493038e02d926d401122f03
| serverhash = 635866257b4fc1ade528db8bd53ebbebb4816e5e
| servermap = 57882209cb9b4e10303e7a7a2b3b3f93ae32bb8f
| prevparent = 
| prev = Combat Test 7c
| next = Combat Test 8c
| nextparent = 
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 8b''' is the eighth experimental version of a future combat revision.<ref name=":1">{{reddit|url=idvujw|title=Here we go again... Combat test snapshot 8b|author=jeb_|date=August 21, 2020}}</ref> Although it is a development version for a future release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.16.2|1.16.2]]. This version was released only on {{w|Reddit}}, so it does not appear in the [[launcher]] or in any [[Minecraft.net]] blog post.

[[Combat Test 8]] was released earlier for private testing.

== Changes ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchantment]]s'''
* [[Cleaving]] now adds +2/+3/+4 points of damage (was +1/+2/+3).</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* Combat Test 8b has the same [[protocol version]] as [[Combat Test 8]] and [[Combat Test 8c]], which means these versions are cross-compatible with each other.
** This is a rare time where 3 development versions have had the same protocol version.
* Combat Test 8b has the same [[data version]] as [[21w14a]] even though these versions should not be compatible with each other.
** This means that they are compatible on singleplayer but not multiplayer.

== Notes ==
{{Notelist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== External links ==
* [https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/ed4ac6cf06a6828888f24b58416542dacf6e9960/Minecraft%20Damage%20Calculations%20%28v2%29.xlsx A Microsoft Excel sheet] that [[Mojang]] has been using to check damage values.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[de:Combat Test 8b]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 8b]]
[[fr:Édition Java Test de combat 8b]]
[[ja:Java Edition Combat Test 8b]]
[[lzh:爪哇版鬭測八乙]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 8b]]
[[ru:Combat Test 8b (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java Combat Test 8b]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 8b]]