{{Lost version}}
{{Infobox version
|title=0.0.16a
|edition=java
|prefix=Classic
|date=June 7, 2009
|server=[[Classic server 1.0|1.0]]
|clientdl=Client not archived
|prevparent=0.0.15a (Multiplayer Test 1)
|prev=0.0.15a_03
|next=0.0.16a_01
|nextparent=0.0.17a
}}

'''0.0.16a'''<ref name="16a"/> is a version of [[Java Edition Classic]] released on June 7, 2009,<ref>[[wordofnotch:119434936|"By popular demand, another MP test today"]] – The Word of Notch, June 7, 2009</ref> at 17:07 UTC, which added commands.<ref name="16a">[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''[11:08] <Barlon> yay 0.0.16a!''" (17:08 UTC)</ref><ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''[11:26] * Notch changes topic to 'http://www.minecraft.net/  |  http://www.minecraft.net/mptest.jsp  |  64 player limit. Huge map.  |  I might have to restart the server a few times..'''" (17:26 UTC)</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Commands]]'''
* {{cmd|/op}}
** Grants operator status to player.
* {{cmd|/deop}}
** Revokes operator status from player.
* {{cmd|/ban}}
** Adds player to banlist.
* {{cmd|/unban}}
** Removes a banned player from the banlist.
* {{cmd|/banip}}
** Adds IP address to banlist.
** Cannot be undone in-game, {{cd|banned-ip.txt}} must manually be changed.
* {{cmd|/kick}}
** Kicks a player off a server.
* {{cmd|/broadcast}}
** Displays a message to multiple players.

== Changes ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Multiplayer]]'''
* Reduced bandwidth usage.

== Fixes ==
'''2 bugs fixed'''
* Fixed some minor bugs.{{info needed|too vague - should be replaced with examples}}
* [[Player]]s can go out of sync if the game changes while logging in.

== References ==
* {{anchor|logs}}[https://archive.org/download/Testvan-Minecraft-IRC-logs IRC logs], #minecraft.20090607.log (June 7, 2009, UTC&minus;6)
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[es:Java Edition Classic 0.0.16a]]
[[fr:Édition Java Classique 0.0.16a]]
[[ja:Java Edition Classic 0.0.16a]]
[[lzh:爪哇版古典版〇點〇點一六甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic 0.0.16a]]
[[ru:Classic 0.0.16a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Classic 0.0.16a]]
[[Category:Java Edition Classic versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition Multiplayer Test Classic versions]]