{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 15w43a
|edition=Java
|image=15w43a.png
|image2=Java Edition 15w43a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=October 21, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=c7869840cb9c9acd152c0b8aafe74bef191a9d44
|jsonhash=06fddff71f0c2590cbee9b179b076e4c2516c72a
|serverhash=dfc6b233c097fa377f35972e7c95e3c23c632f3c
|exehash=41857c07f019f4389e79e63fec46ea057d6bccc2
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w42a
|next=15w43b
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w43a''' is the thirty-fourth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on October 21, 2015.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20151021161242/https://www.mojang.com/2015/10/minecraft-snapshot-15w43a/</ref> Most notably, Chinese, Japanese and Korean (and likely other IME languages) can now be input into chat thanks to bug {{bug|MC-2781}} being fixed. Igloos were also added in this version.

== Additions ==
=== World generation ===
'''{{EnvLink|Igloo}}'''
* Spawns randomly in [[ice plains]] and [[cold taiga]] (but not the hills variant).
** Spawning parameters are shared with [[desert pyramid]]s, [[jungle temple]]s, and [[witch hut]]s: the fact of a structure spawn is decided, then the biome determines which structure (if any) is spawned.
* Created by Searge (as found in the NBT data).
* An igloo contains: 9 [[white carpet]]s, 3 [[light gray carpet]]s, 2 blocks of [[ice]], a [[redstone torch]], a [[furnace]], [[bed]] and a [[crafting table]].
* Some igloos have a [[stone brick]] basement, with a [[cauldron]], 2 [[red carpet]]s, a [[brewing stand]], 3 [[spruce stairs]], 2 [[torch]]es and a loot chest, along with a [[villager]] priest and [[zombie villager]] priest behind [[iron bars]]. An [[oak trapdoor]] with [[ladder]]s leads down into the basement. Cracked and mossy stone bricks can also generate.
** In the loot chest, there is sometimes be a [[golden apple]] in the central spot, hinting that the player needs to cure the zombie.
** Always spawns with a splash potion of Weakness, hinting the player to use these on the zombie villager to turn it into the same type of villager next to it.
** The zombie has the <code>PersistenceRequired</code> tag which makes it not despawn.
** [[Silverfish]] spawn in some stone brick blocks.

=== Command format ===
'''[[NBT format]]'''
* Chests/minecart chests
** {{nbt|string|LootTable}}: Loot table to be used to fill the chest when it is next opened or destroyed. When the chest is part of a double chest, only the half corresponding to the tagged single-chest is affected.
*** e.g. <code>/setblock ~ ~1 ~ minecraft:chest 0 replace {LootTable:"minecraft:chests/simple_dungeon"}</code>.
** {{nbt|long|LootTableSeed}}: Seed for generating the loot table. Used in vanilla survival to replicate chest content in new worlds with same seeds. 0 or omitted uses a random seed.
*** {{command|setblock ''x'' ''y'' ''z'' minecraft:chest 0 replace <nowiki>{LootTable:"chests/simple_dungeon",LootTableSeed:12345}</nowiki>}}.
* All mobs
** {{nbt|string|DeathLootTable}} (string): Determines which loot table is used when the mob is killed.
*** e.g. <code>/summon Creeper ~ ~1 ~ {DeathLootTable:"minecraft:chests/simple_dungeon"}</code>.
** {{nbt|long|DeathLootTableSeed}} (long): The deterministic seed for grabbing data from the loot table. Used in vanilla survival to replicate chest content in new worlds with same seeds. Must not be 0.
*** e.g. <code>/summon Creeper ~ ~1 ~ {DeathLootTable:"minecraft:chests/simple_dungeon",DeathLootTableSeed:123l}</code>.

=== General ===
==== [[Language]] ====
* Added LOLCAT.
* Replaced Australian English (Australia) with English (Australia). (Australian English had many jokes/slang, but English (Australia) is a real language.)
'''[[Loot tables]]'''
* All loot from mobs, chests etc. is now based on [[loot table]]s, excluding block drops.
** Can be changed by mapmakers by adding a json file within the "WORLD/data/loot_tables" folder, however, it is broken in 43a.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Heavy weighted pressure plate]], [[light weighted pressure plate]], [[wooden pressure plate]], [[fence gate]]s, [[iron door]]s, [[wooden door]]s, [[wooden button]]s'''
* Added new sounds.

'''[[Lily pad]]s'''
* Can be placed on [[ice]] and [[frosted ice]], but don't stay placed if updated.

'''[[Sugar cane]]'''
* No longer breaks if its adjacent water is turned to [[frosted ice]].

'''[[Chest]]s'''
* Changed sounds.
** Ender chests still use the old sounds, however, due to {{bug|MC-91091}}.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Mobs wearing armor or carrying weapons no longer drop the equipment, i.e. <code>HandDropChances</code> and <code>ArmorDropChances</code> are ignored.
** See {{bug|MC-91147}}.

'''[[Cave spider]]s & [[spider]]s'''
* Drop eyes more often (now 50% chance, previously a 33% chance normally and 66%/77%/82.5% with Looting) and the amount is now increased by [[Looting]].

'''[[Chicken]]s'''
* Now drop more than one meat item when killed with [[Looting]].
** See {{bug|MC-91074}}.

'''[[Elder guardian]]s'''
* No longer rarely drop fish as if from fishing.
** See {{bug|MC-91152}}.
* Now drop dry sponges on any kill, rather than wet sponges on a player kill.
* Drop chances for raw fish and prismarine crystals changed. Now it is a 40% chance for fish, 40% for crystals, and 20% of nothing, with the amount increased by Looting. Formerly it was 33% raw fish and 33% of crystals only if the raw fish drop failed, with Looting increasing the chances but not the amount.

'''[[Endermen]]'''
* No longer drop the held block.
** See {{bug|MC-91151}}.

'''[[Ghast]]s'''
* Now drop 0–3 gunpowder and 0–2 ghast tears (up from 0–2 gunpowder and 0–1 tears), incremented as usual with Looting.
** See in {{bug|MC-91156}}.

'''[[Guardian]]s'''
* No longer rarely drop fish as if from fishing.
* Drop chances for raw fish and prismarine crystals changed. Now it is a 40% chance for fish, 40% for crystals, and 20% of nothing, with the amount increased by Looting. Formerly it was 33% raw fish and 33% of crystals only if the raw fish drop failed, with Looting increasing the chances but not the amount.
** See {{bug|MC-91152}}.

'''[[Horse]]s'''
* No longer drop leather, bones, or rotten flesh. Saddles, horse armor, chests, and chest contents are still dropped when applicable.
** See {{bug|MC-91149}}

'''[[Pig]]s'''
* No longer drop worn saddles.
** See {{bug|MC-91147}}.

'''[[Rabbit]]s'''
* Now drop more than one meat item when killed with [[Looting]].
** See {{bug|MC-91074}}.
* Rabbits no longer rarely drop [[rabbit's foot|feet]].
** See {{bug|MC-91098}}.

'''[[Sheep]]'''
* Sheared sheep now drop wool when killed.
** See {{bug|MC-91148}}.

'''[[Skeleton]]s'''
* Now drop 0–3 arrows and 0–3 bones (up from 0–2 of each), incremented as usual with Looting.

'''[[Wither skeleton]]s'''
* Now drop 0–3 coal and 0–3 bones (up from 0–1 coal with "0" having double chance and 0–2 bones), incremented as usual with Looting.

'''[[Zombie pigman]] '''
* Now drop 0–2 rotten flesh and 0–2 gold nuggets (up from 0–1 of each), incremented as usual with Looting.

''Note: many changes above were reverted or modified in [[15w43b]] and [[15w43c]], with the exception of the change to the drop chances from [[guardian]]s, the change of elder guardians dropping dry rather than wet sponges, the addition of [[Looting]] affecting [[chicken]] and [[rabbit]] meat drops, and the change to how Looting affects [[spider eye]] drops. Also, as of [[15w34c]] horses again drop their items, but always 1 rather than 0–2.''

=== World generation ===
'''[[Stronghold]]'''
* Increased number of strongholds to 128 per world, rather than 3.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|gamemode}}'''
* Now displays in chat the gamemode the player switched to.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Brewing]]'''
* [[Blaze powder]] fuel points reduced from 30 to 20.

'''[[Enchantments]]'''
* [[Frost Walker]] no longer works on flowing water.

'''[[Trading]]'''
* Librarians charge double for books with "treasure" enchantments.

=== General ===
'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* Is now toggled when the {{key|F3}} key is released, instead of when it is pressed. 
* Now shows more information.
** {{keys|F3+Q}} gives help.
*** Shows all {{key|F3}} + key combinations.
** {{keys|F3+F}} now increases render distance by 1 (minimum 2, maximum 32).
** {{keys|F3+shift+F}} now decreases render distance by 1 (minimum 2, maximum 32).
** Shows if the pie chart and FPS chart are shown on screen.
** Shows text in chat when you reload chunks, sounds, etc.
** Does not open the F3 screen when you use a specific key combination like {{keys|F3+N}}, {{keys|F3+B}}, etc.
** Removed {{keys|F3+S}}, which previously reloaded sounds.
*** {{keys|F3+T}} now reloads all resource pack content, including sounds.

'''[[Sounds]]'''
* Added 150+ new sound events.<ref>{{tweet|_grum|657124607099543552|Done with the code for captions, just need data to show now! Btw, you should have 150+ extra soundevents in the last snapshot!|October 22, 2015}}</ref>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w43a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|1315|When all 3 end portals have failed to spawn there is no way to get to the end.
|2781|Chinese, Japanese and Korean (and probably other IME entered languages) characters not working.
|72397|Alex model displays items incorrectly.
|72839|{{key|F3}} + {{key|A}} will always make you walk left slightly.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|UN929mR1T4E}}

== Trivia ==
* 15w43a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w43a]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w43a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w43a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w43a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w43a]]
[[ru:15w43a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w43a]]