{{Infobox version
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 14w32b.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=August 7, 2014
|parent=1.8
|clienthash=cfd33586f6033c2ddd092db137b83b85cc10733c
|jsonhash=9010ff6f3dc5e1fce9dc071438a24baeb93491d6
|serverhash=8aa6b045d31cc4a9224ecce602e9f5f748d8f460
|exehash=cd04077d5ff9e2fbf7860b49ab576cc7f8a13fd9
|prevparent=1.7.10
|prev=14w32a
|next=14w32c
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''14w32b''' is the forty-third [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.8]], released on August 7, 2014,<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140807175846/https://mojang.com/2014/08/minecraft-snapshot-14w32a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w32b|author=[[Dinnerbone]]|website=Mojang.com|date=August 6, 2014}}</ref> to fix some bugs and crashes from [[14w32a]].

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Fence]]s'''
* New types of fences for all the different types of wood.
** Different types can connect to each other.
** Original fence renamed to oak fence.
* New crafting recipe using 2 sticks and 4 planks to make 3 fences.

'''[[Fence gate]]s'''
* New types of fence gates for all the different types of wood.
** Different types can connect to each other.
** Original fence gate renamed to oak fence gate.
* Can now catch fire.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|entitydata}}'''
* Works similarly to {{cmd|blockdata}} but can be targeted to entities.
** Does not work on [[player]]s.
** Usage: {{cmd|entitydata <entity> <dataTag>}}.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Armor stand]]'''
* Can now use pick-block on armor stands (gives the stand, not the armor equipped).
* Now craftable using only [[stone slab]]s instead of any stone-type slab.

'''[[Beacon]]'''
* [[Beacon beam]] changes color instantly.
* Beam now goes through all blocks that don't completely block light: ice, water, and leaves.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=14w32b|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|586|Beacon light does not travel through water.
|3337|Cannot walk through 2 high hole with chest/soul sand/portal frames in floor.
|3444|The give command stacks any item.
|34815|Hearts do not blink when regenerating.
|52653|Player skull lag.
|;dev
|59533|Beacon beam shows but effect is not applied and can't be edited.
|59889|Crash when seeing <code>mobapperance</code> particles.
|63174|Heads face wrong way in item frames.
|64024|Crash report (<code>Batching chunks java.util.ConcurrentModificationException</code>).
|64188|{{cmd|execute}} with relative coordinates commands are forced to the center of the x and z-axis of the block the target is in, not the target itself.
|64536|Entities darken when items in frames are rendered
|;prev
|65512|Pick block on double red sandstone slab crashes the game.
|65524|Unable to pick block on armor stand.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 14w32b was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time but was added back in September 2018.
* Due to a bug, jungle fences and gates are uncraftable in 14w32b. Instead, it causes the spruce variants to be crafted.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:14w32b]]
[[es:Java Edition 14w32b]]
[[fr:Édition Java 14w32b]]
[[pt:Edição Java 14w32b]]
[[ru:14w32b (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版14w32b]]