{{Infobox version
|title=15w43c
|edition=Java
|image=15w43a.png
|image2=Java Edition 15w43c.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=October 23, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=f0437e3ac44089f3e604308041179ab2d3ed639b
|jsonhash=57b03175602261e9f2787cd513e05fe6ee0c8b6d
|serverhash=e514e7107639d2e8b285ceff5eaa114379dafba7
|exehash=8865d9f952d967bff93cfb75a260518cb20a0a6a
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w43b
|next=15w44a
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w43c''' is the thirty-sixth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on October 23, 2015<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20151030024227/https://www.mojang.com/2015/10/minecraft-snapshot-15w43a/</ref> to make some changes to the loot table system, as well as fix some bugs and crashes.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Fixed mobs never dropping equipment.

'''[[Endermen]] '''
* Drop the block they are carrying again.

'''[[Pig]]s '''
* If equipped with saddle, they drop the saddle again.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Boat]]s'''
* Remapped. They now have a separate texture per oar and per side of the boat.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Igloo]]s'''
* The glass bottle in the [[brewing stand]] was removed.
* A [[cobweb]] generates in the corner of the basement.
* The [[sign]] in the igloo dungeon has changed.<ref>https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/3px30m/snapshot_14w43c/cwa5z2n</ref>
** Previously:
{{sign
|type=oak
|
|--->
|<---
}}
:* Now:
{{sign
|type=oak
|****- ***--
|--** *-*
|*-** -**
|--*** ***--
}}

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Fishing]]'''
* The [[Lure]] enchantment no longer affects the chances of catching things, only the delay.
* The [[Luck of the Sea]] enchantment is broken due to a typo in the new fishing loot table.
* Fished junk is less damaged (0%–90% durability remaining) while treasure is more damaged (0%–25% durability remaining).
* [[Ink sac]]s now are caught singly with weight 10 (formerly a stack of 10 with weight 1).

=== General ===
'''[[Loot table]]s'''
* The format is updated, so that rather than a 'items' node containing 'item' entries, it is an 'entries' node containing 'type' and 'name' entries.
** Type entries can be 'item', 'loot_table', or 'empty'.
** Name entries can either be item identifier for items, or the location and name of the loot table.
*** Example:
::::<code>"type": "loot_table",</code>
::::<code>"name": "minecraft:gameplay/fishing/treasure",</code>.
:* This allows for easier nested loot tables.
* The fishing tables are now available, along with loot for skeleton horses, zombie horses, and sheep without wool.
* Added the function 'set_damage', which is used to change the durability of a tool.
* Fixed some loot tables.
** Guardians and elder guardians have their rare drop of fishing loot again, though it includes fishing junk and fishing treasure as well.
** Elder guardians only drop sponges when killed by the player.
** Horses drop 1 leather. Skeleton and zombie horses drop 1 bone and 1 rotten flesh, respectively.
** Squid reverted back to dropping 1–3 ink sacs (was changed to 0–2 in [[15w43b]]).
** Wither skeleton coal drop chance reverted back to earlier behavior: drops −1–1 (i.e. a 66% chance of 0 and a 33% chance of 1) with the amount increased as usual by [[Looting]].
** Spider and cave spider eye drop chance adjusted, now drops −1–1 (i.e. a 66% chance of 0 and a 33% chance of 1) with the amount increased as usual by [[Looting]].

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w43c|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|162|Ghost boats.
|5120|Fireworks pushed by water/fired horizontally out of loaded chunks cause client to hang.
|32778|Cannot assign keypad 5 key to motion any longer.
|62159|Broken graphic for breaking piston arms/Extended piston head breaking texture is wrong.
|68666|Block breaking uses nearby textures from stitched terrain when using cubes/planes larger than 16px.
|73261|Couldn't jump on an anvil if I directly stand in front of the anvil.(Only in Multiplayer).
|73401|Hopper texture issue.
|;From the 1.8.2 development versions
|76352|Rain under bedrock/in void.
|;dev
|88324|Minecraft freezes after x times of relogging.
|89926|Elytra can't be set to Chestplate Slot w/ {{cmd|replaceitem}}, but can be set to head slot.
|89935|New chunks don't render until they are updated.
|90213|Head has 360 degrees of vertical rotation when using elytra.
|91147|Mobs no longer drop equipment.
|91148|Killing a sheared sheep still drops wool.
|91149|Horses no longer drop leather/bones/rotten flesh.
|91151|Endermen no longer drop carried blocks.
|91152|Guardians and Elder Guardians no longer rarely drop fish/salmon/clownfish/pufferfish.
|91156|Mobs drop different amount of common items than before.
|;previous
|91185|Loot tables affect mobs drops/held items.
|91203|Loot table function <code>"set_data"</code> doesn't work with tools.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|g2ksSJf-6Bc}}

== Trivia ==
* 15w43c was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.
* 15w43c is the last version to have a crafting recipe for the [[enchanted golden apple]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w43c]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w43c]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w43c]]
[[it:Java Edition 15w43c]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w43c]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w43c]]
[[ru:15w43c (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w43c]]