{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft 1.19.1 Pre-release 5
| image = 1.19.1-pre5.jpg
| image2 = Java Edition 1.19.1 Pre-release 5.png
| edition = Java
| type = Pre-release
| date = July 15, 2022
| jsonhash = 3e53dbf54f22f38d132c9328b12e8e604d2e8a28
| jsonfile = 1.19.1-pre5
| clienthash = 151f225ed7b76e434a5da19a0bc9d094699f1323
| clientmap = abf955fdd57905651c59f2fb4fb6bc5cecaea302
| serverhash = 33cdf9ceaaedebb0a71ca5f4d85d4e7198c09b8e
| servermap = ec21339a000113979d329583cfddd5500afcbc63
| parent = 1.19.1
| prevparent = 1.19
| prev = 1.19.1 Pre-release 4
| next = 1.19.1 Pre-release 6
| nextparent = 1.19.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.19.1 Pre-release 5''' (known as '''1.19.1-pre5''' in the launcher) is the fifth pre-release for [[Java Edition 1.19.1]], released on July 15, 2022,<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-19-1-pre-release-5|Minecraft 1.19.1 Pre-Release 5|July 15, 2022}}</ref> which makes tweaks to chats and fixes bugs.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Chat]]'''
* When writing chat messages, the signing status of the displayed chat messages is shown with a colored indicator.
** The indicator either appears to the left of the chat input field, or to the left of the chat preview if chat preview is being used.
** The indicator is green when the displayed message is signed.
** The indicator is orange when chat preview is enabled and a preview is waiting to be signed.
* The {{cd|team_msg_command}} chat type has been split apart into {{cd|team_msg_command_incoming}} and {{cd|team_msg_command_outgoing}}.

'''Chat preview'''
* The background of the chat preview also displays slightly faded when a preview is waiting to be signed.
* The "On Modified" mode no longer displays previews if the message has not been modified by the server.
* Chat preview is now enabled in singleplayer, and is displayed when using commands that have selector substitution such as {{cmd|say}}.
* Previewed hover events and click events are now highlighted with a solid background.

'''[[Options]]'''
* Added "On Send" chat preview option for updating chat previews only when attempting to send a message.
** To confirm sending a message, a second hit of the {{key|Enter}}/{{key|Return}} key is required.
** The previous "ON" setting has been renamed to "On Modified".

'''[[Social interactions screen]]'''
* Updated descriptions of the following report categories:
** Imminent harm - Self-harm or suicide
*** Someone is threatening to harm themselves in real life<del class="tc-no">,</del> or talking about harming <del class="tc-no">yourself</del> <ins class="tc-yes">themselves</ins> in real life.
** Imminent harm - Threat to harm others
*** Someone is threatening to harm <del class="tc-no">themselves in real life or talking about harming themselves</del> <ins class="tc-yes">you or someone else</ins> in real life.
** Terrorism or violent extremism
*** Someone is talking about, promoting, or threatening <del class="tc-no">with</del> <ins class="tc-yes">to commit</ins> acts of terrorism or violent extremism for political, religious, ideological, or other reasons.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.19.1 Pre-release 5
|;From released versions before 1.19
|130243|{{cmd|debug stop}} message uses OS locale specific number formatting.
|149047|Scroll Sensitivity slider label uses OS locale for number formatting.
|;From 1.19
|250034|Standing on top of mud as it converts to clay causes the player to fall through or be pushed out of the block.
|252546|Poor audio quality compared to 1.18.2.
|252702|Game crashes when trying to launch 1.19 when system is in Arabic, Persian, or adjacent formats.
|253888|Messages that servers have tampered with through chat reporting are signed and reportable.
|254228|Client data generator crashes due to locale-dependent {{cd|String.format}}.
|;dev
|253223|A preposition is incorrectly used within the {{cd|gui.abuseReport.reason.terrorism_or_violent_extremism.description}} string.
|253950|Sending a chat message too fast after typing it fails to sign the eventual proper chat preview.
|253997|The current description of "Imminent harm - Threat to harm others" report category seems not matching its title.
|;previous
|254089|Chat Preview components allow server to "hide" content.
}}</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.19.1-pre5]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.19.1 Pre-release 5]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.19.1 Pre-release 5]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.19.1 Pre-release 5]]
[[lzh:爪哇版一點一九點一之預五]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.19.1 Pre-release 5]]
[[ru:1.19.1 Pre-release 5 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.19.1-pre5]]