{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 12w41a
|image=12w41a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 12w41a.png
|edition=java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.4.2
|date=October 11, 2012
|clientdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.4/pre/12w41a.jar Client] ([https://meta.omniarchive.uk/versions/v1/12w41a.json .json])
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w41a.jar Server]
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w41a.exe .exe]
[[Category:Versions using legacy download site]]
|prevparent=1.3.2
|prev=12w40b
|next=12w41b
|nextparent=1.4.4
}}<onlyinclude>

'''12w41a''' is the twelfth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.4.2]], released on October 11, 2012.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20121011180738/http://www.mojang.com/2012/10/minecraft-snapshot-12w41a/</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Anvil]]'''
* Used for repairing, merging & naming items.
** Three different damage states: "Anvil", "Slightly Damaged Anvil", and "Very Damaged Anvil".
** Anvils cannot only rename tools and armor, but any item.
*** Renamed placeable items don't retain their name if placed.
** Anvils can merge enchantments.
*** Items with two different enchantments give an item with both.
*** Items with the same enchantment increase the level of the enchantment if they have the same level or take only the highest if they don't.
*** Some enchantments can be lost during the merging because of incompatibility (ex: Sharpness I + Smite I).
**** The first item seems to have the priority (the lost enchantments are on the second item).
** Anvils can also be dropped in a similar manner to sand, gravel, and dragon eggs.
*** When landing on a mob, the anvil deals damage relative to the distance it fell.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Creeper]]s'''
* Now can have custom explosion radius and fuse timer using edited mob spawners and NBT data (<code>ExplosionRadius & Fuse</code>).

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]s'''
* Potion-like effects given by the beacon now use semi-transparent particles, to be less intrusive.
* Normal potions remain unchanged.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* No longer forget that they are aggressive against a player in Creative mode after a few seconds.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Experience]] '''
* Can now be obtained by breeding animals.
* Level-up sound now only plays every 5 levels. 
** Sound has been tweaked.

=== General ===
'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* {{key|F3+H}} now shows tool and armor durability on damaged items – on maps it shows the zoom level.
* Now shows which cardinal direction the player is facing on the "f" value.
* The pie chart on the debug overlay is now shown when opening it using {{key|Shift+F3}} instead of vice versa.

'''Settings menu'''
* Renamed "Chat Settings" to "Multiplayer Settings".
** Contains the old chat settings menu.
** Option for cape-owners to hide their capes in game.

== Fixes ==
'''5 bugs fixed'''
* When placing the anvil in mid-air in a certain orientation the entity will be sideways until it lands.
* Breaking the block under any anvil resets it to a regular anvil.
* When using the {{cmd|/kill}} command, an error appears. When holding a block, it gives the normal message, but player doesn't die.
* When in a multiplayer server and trying to rename an item, the client crashes if an entire name is erased.
* Using [[Fortune]] &ge; IV (normally impossible to obtain) on [[gravel]] causes a game crash.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.4.2 development versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition development versions released in 2012]]

[[de:12w41a]]
[[es:Java Edition 12w41a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 12w41a]]
[[it:Java Edition 12w41a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 12w41a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 12w41a]]
[[nl:12w41a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 12w41a]]
[[ru:12w41a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版12w41a]]