{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 19w12a
|image=19w12a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 19w12a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=March 20, 2019
|clienthash=15ee2d37e5ec79dbf51aa39b000616be94033d6a
|jsonhash=bd0f4bd23dd41dc63df25ee83943cbc6364d2db0
|serverhash=dc1a1dfef026d38dfc04b360653172f5428f86ef
|parent=1.14
|prevparent=1.13.2
|prev=19w11b
|next=19w12b
|nextparent=1.14.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''19w12a''' is the twenty-seventh [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.14]], released on March 20, 2019<ref>{{snap|19w12a|March 20, 2019}}</ref>, which adds two new [[slab]]s.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''{{BlockLink|Cut sandstone slab}} and {{BlockLink|cut red sandstone slab}}'''
* Crafted from [[cut sandstone]] and [[cut red sandstone]].
* It's no longer possible to make regular [[sandstone slab]]s out of cut sandstone.

=== General ===
'''[[Splash]]es'''
* Added "<player name> IS YOU"

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Banner]]s'''
* Illager banners can no longer be copied using a [[loom]] or [[crafting table]].

'''[[Glass]]'''
* Now acts more like most [[solid block]]s.
** Redstone dust and torches can now be placed on top of glass.
** Mobs now suffocate inside glass.

'''[[Grass path]], [[mycelium]], and [[podzol]]'''
* Now have random orientations when placed, similar to [[grass block]]s.

'''[[Sandstone]]'''
* [[Cut sandstone]] and [[cut red sandstone]] are now available through [[stonecutter]]s.

=== Items ===
'''[[Totems of undying]]'''
* The texture and model of the totem shown when used now has the same <code>CustomModelData</code> value as the item.
** [[Resource pack]]s which use this tag thus now have the correct model when activated.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Iron golem]]s'''
* Tweaked spawning in [[village]]s.
** Also only spawn now if villagers in a village have worked and slept before a meeting.

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Improved AI.
* Baby villagers now play in villages.
* Nitwit and unemployed variations of villagers for snowy and zombie snowy villages changed.

'''General'''
* Updated hitboxes and eye positions of many entities.{{more info}}
** Player height while sneaking is now 1.5 meters.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Advancement]]s'''
* [[Two by Two]]
** Now also requires breeding [[fox]]es.

'''[[Sneaking]]'''
* Now reduces the player's height to 1.5 blocks, allowing them to walk through 1.5-block-tall gaps.

'''[[Trading]]'''
* General improvements.
** Trades are now locked from 6–8 trades instead of just 4.

=== General ===
'''[[Creative inventory]]'''
* Wall blocks are now found in the "Decoration Blocks" tab.

'''[[Sound]]s'''
* Rewrote sound system.
* Reduced stuttering when playing sounds.
* Global sounds now always play at full volume. Previously they were just played at the player's position, which made it possible for them to become quieter or stop being audible if the player moved while it was playing.

'''[[Splash]]'''
* Removed "Hobo humping slobo babe!"

'''World creation'''
* Worlds with names already being used now prepend a number in parentheses to the folder name instead of adding hyphens.
** For example, {{cd|New World (3)}} instead of {{cd|New World---}}.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=19w12a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|36952|Minecart sound randomly stops.
|41113|{{cmd|clear}} turns items held by mouse into ghost items.
|50367|Bad hitboxes and eye positions.
|96946|Endermen keep following player in creative mode.
|113251|Invalid sound files freeze the game.
|122885|Attempting to back up a world with a path longer than 260 results in a crash.
|;dev
|137725|[[Advancement]]s not updated in [[1.14]] snapshots.
|137761|Loom model and placement are incorrect.
|138220|Random ticks occur while [[player]] is in spectator mode.
|138491|Crash when rendering a [[sign]] with the vanilla data pack disabled.
|138580|[[Adventure]] mode does not prevent dyeing signs.
|138659|[[Totem of Undying]] death animation model doesn't match with {{cd|CustomModelData}}.
|139440|[[Illager banner]]s can be copied.
|139458|[[Horse]] texture is sometimes translucent.
|140354|[[Evoker]]s continue attacking nothing after the target dies.
|140409|Scaffolding texture is wrong.
|141286|Teleporting a big distance freezes the server.
|142466|[[Book]] page flipping sound seems to only play on the left or right channel depending on the player's position.
|143390|Non-existing {{cd|CatType}} summons an invisible cat.
|143412|Trader [[llama]]s do not join llama caravan unless a trader llama is the leader.
|143736|Trader llama actively attacks the zombie pigmen.
|144501|Horses drops two leather armor when killed.
|144612|[[Ender dragon]] fly incorrectly.
|145668|Front-facing camera up/down directions are reversed in F5/third person.
|145689|[[Villager]]s never stop running after being attacked by a zombie.
|145712|Some villagers do not go to bed at night.
|145732|Villager trade experience changes based on what trade you're looking at.
|145787|When entering a bed from the block next to it or while standing on it, the camera moves too far into the player model.
|145802|[[Enderman]] never attacking again once you put on creative mode and back to survival.
|145817|Villager lost their levels after becoming a zombie and getting cured.
|145857|Farmer villagers don't farm.
|145872|Villagers walk around their job site blocks and bell.
|146005|[[Suspicious stew]]s sold by farmers have an extremely short effect.
|;previous
|145868|POI never registered crash not fixed.
|145925|Realms button crash {{cd|NoSuchMethodError: RealmsClientOutdatedScreen}}.
|145956|Breaking doors with villagers crashes the game.
|145994|Watching Server {{cd|java.lang.Unsafe.park}} (Native Method).
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|zzKQLbB7lW4}}

== Trivia ==
* The splash "<player name> IS YOU" is a possible reference to the indie puzzle game Baba is You, which was released 7 days prior.
* 19w12a is the first server snapshot released in the 12th week of a year.
** 19w12a is also the first snapshot released on the 12th week of a year to follow regular naming conventions.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[cs:19w12a]]
[[de:19w12a]]
[[es:Java Edition 19w12a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 19w12a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 19w12a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 19w12a]]
[[ru:19w12a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版19w12a]]