{{distinguish|Indev}}
{{distinguish|Infdev}}
{{distinguish|Java Edition Infdev 20100227-1414}}

Several unreleased development versions of Infdev labelled '''Minecraft Indev''' were developed. They show in-development features later included in [[Java Edition Infdev 20100227-1414]].

== Infinite terrain test (February 26th, 2010) ==
{{Unreleased version|section=1}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft Indev
|image=Infdev dev build.png
|edition=Java
|unreleased=1
|date=February 26, 2010
|phase=Classic
|no_data=1 |no_protocol=1
}}

; General
* The version tag is still "Minecraft Indev".
* Clouds are usually not visible due to the high amount of fog.

; Additions
* Added golden apple.
** Restores health bar to full health when consumed.
* Infinite worlds
** Very early and buggy.
** Generate a test pattern rather than actual terrain.
** The following issues and bugs are present as a result of infinite terrain:
*** Glitchy behavior occurs if the player walks too far from the center of the world.
*** Z-fighting.
*** Chunks in negative locations don't get updated.
*** Lighting, entities, and many other major features do not work.

== Proper terrain test (February 27th, 2010) ==
{{Unreleased version|section=1}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft Indev
|image=Indev 20100227.png
|edition=Java
|unreleased=1
|date=February 27, 2010
|phase=Classic
|no_data=1 |no_protocol=1
}}

'''[https://web.archive.org/web/20100303072349/http://notch.tumblr.com/post/414322017/progress-update-on-infinite-maps Word of Notch post]'''
; General
* The issues from the previous version, including the incorrect version tag, are still present.

; Changes
* The terrain generator has been updated to now support proper terrain with infinite worlds.
* Map height is now 256.
* Fog distance is now 128.
** As a result, clouds are even less visible.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Infdev}}

[[Category:Unreleased builds]]

[[es:Java Edition Infdev 20100227-1414/Desarrollo]]
[[fr:Édition Java Infdev 20100227-1414/Développement]]
[[lzh:爪哇版方製無垠版二〇一〇〇二二七之一/方作]]
[[pt:Edição Java Infdev 20100227-1414/Desenvolvimento]]
[[ru:Infdev 20100227-1414 (Java Edition)/Разработка]]
[[uk:Infdev 20100227-1414 (Java Edition)/Розробка]]
[[zh:Java版Infdev 20100227-1414/开发]]