<!--
There is no 0.0.1a.
See talk page before trying to add it.
-->
{{unreleased version|private=y}}
{{Infobox version
|title=0.0.2a
|edition=Java
|phase=Classic
|date=May 16, 2009
|clientdl=Client not archived
|serverdl=No corresponding server
|vernum=0.0.2
|prevparent=mc-161648
|nextparent=0.0.3a
|prefix=Classic
|no_data=1
|no_protocol=1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''0.0.2a'''<ref name="0.0.2a">[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(13:05:07) notch: does it say "0.0.2a" in the top left corner of the applet?''" [...] "''(13:08:05) notch: dock: If you have the courage to run it again, i'd love to know if you get version 0.0.2 and what the mouse look is on in there..''" [...] "''(13:08:31) fartron: i have 0.0.2a now''" [...] "''(13:08:41) dock: yes this is 0.0.2a''"</ref> is a version of [[Java Edition Classic]] released on May 16, 2009, at 16:52 or 17:05 UTC,<ref name=':0'>[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(12:52:42) notch: I uploaded a new version with a (huge annoying) version label''"</ref> which added in game version number, frame rate and chunk update counter, and fixed some issues with the mouse look.

This is the first version of ''Minecraft'' to have a version number, version ''0.0.1a'' has been skipped.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* Version number<ref name=":0"/>
** Very large text.<ref name=":0"/>
** Located in the top-left corner.<ref name="0.0.2a"/>
* Added a frame rate and chunk update counter.
** Located in the top left corner, below the version number.
** Before this, the game would output the current FPS and any chunk updates to the developer console.

'''[[Font]]'''
* Added a ''Minecraft'' font.
** Filename: <code>default.gif</code>.

== Fixes ==
'''1 bug fixed'''
* Fixed more issues with mouse looking.<ref>[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(12:53:53) notch: did the mouselook get better?''" [...] "''(13:09:14) fartron: mouse look is good again''"</ref>

== Bugs ==
'''2 bugs reported'''
* When a key is pressed down and the game is blurred without being clicked out of, the game still registers that key being pressed.<ref>[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(13:23:42) notch: so if you walk forwards and tab out, it should keep walking forever. Which is a bug.''"</ref> This still occurs in modern ''Minecraft'', making this the game's oldest bug.<ref>{{bug|MC-886#comment-30884|MC-886}}, resolved as "Invalid" because it is an issue with LWJGL.</ref>
* Some issues reported were low sensitivity,<ref name="lowsense/crashing"/> crashing,<ref name="lowsense/crashing">[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(13:28:39) Dragonene: notch: it's damned sweet, but it's unplayable because of the low sens, and it crashed the browser on exit''"</ref> jerky mouse looking,<ref>[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(13:29:31) Dragonene: FPS is fine but looking around is really awkward''" [...] "''(13:29:53) Dragonene: jerky and slow''"</ref> and low FPS.<ref>[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(13:36:02) Dragonene: i'm most certainly *not* getting high fps''"</ref></onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* This was deemed "relatively stable" by Notch, and the URL for the game was posted to other users in the IRC channel.<ref>[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(13:11:24) notch: ok, I deem this "relatively stable" now, so if anyone else wants to help test:''" [...] "''(13:11:25) notch: <nowiki>http://www.mojang.com/notch/minecraft/</nowiki>''"</ref>
* This was the first version of ''Minecraft'' to have its code obfuscated.<ref>[[#tigirc logs|TigIRC logs]]: "''(13:45:03) PFawkes:  at com.mojang.minecraft.c.run(Unknown Source)''" [...] "''(13:45:20) PFawkes:  at com.mojang.minecraft.a.g.a(Unknown Source)''"</ref>{{Check version|Code obfuscation possibly added at least as far back as mc-161607, due to it's a first version ever given to players}}

== References ==
* {{anchor|tigirc logs}} {{link|url=https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/history/files/May-15-to-June-03-2009/2009-05-16.075419-0400EDT.txt.~1~|title=TigIRC logs|date=May 16, 2009, UTC–4|website=Archive.org}}
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[de:Classic 0.0.2a]]
[[es:Java Edition Classic 0.0.2a]]
[[fr:Édition Java Classique 0.0.2a]]
[[hu:Java Edition Classic 0.0.2a]]
[[it:Java Edition Classic 0.0.2a]]
[[ja:Java Edition Classic 0.0.2a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 클래식 0.0.2a]]
[[lzh:爪哇版古典版〇點〇點二甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic 0.0.2a]]
[[ru:Classic 0.0.2a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Classic 0.0.2a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Classic 0.0.2a]]
[[Category:Java Edition Classic versions]]