{{log4j vulnerability}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.16.4
|edition=Java
|image=1.16.4 banner.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 1.16.4.png
|date=November 2, 2020
|clienthash=1952d94a0784e7abda230aae6a1e8fc0522dba99
|jsonhash=e54eda49b4a3b6dc407b952e494d0c32da422693
|serverhash=35139deedbd5182953cf1caa23835da59ca3d7cd
|clientmap=0837de813d1a6b67e23da3c520a84e872c8d2f0e
|servermap=d9ae0e8e28475254855430ff051daaa0dd041a08
|prevparent=1.16
|prev=1.16.3
|next=1.16.5
|nextparent=1.17
}}

'''1.16.4''' is a minor update to {{JE}} released on November 2, 2020,<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-java-edition-1-16-4|Minecraft Java Edition 1.16.4|November 3, 2020}}</ref> which adds the [[social interactions]] screen and fixes various bugs. The content of 1.16.4 is identical to [[Java Edition 1.16.4 Release Candidate 1|its release candidate]].<ref>{{tweet|adrian_ivl|1321835428929015808|Hello! Things happened and we made the decision to hold the release of 1.16.4 until Monday. Still, there won't be any changes from 1.16.4-rc1 to the actual release.|October 29, 2020}}</ref> While 1.16.4 was not the last minor version of 1.16, it was the last one before snapshots for [[Java Edition 1.17|1.17]] began. This is the final version released in 2020.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Chat]]'''
* Added an option to hide matched names.
** Some servers send chat messages in non-standard formats. With this option on, the game attempts to apply chat hiding anyway by matching the text in messages.

'''[[Social interactions]]'''
* Gives [[player]]s the ability to disable chatting with certain players, thus hiding any messages received from them.
* Opens with a configurable key binding, by default {{keys|P}}.
* Whether a player is hidden resets when re-joining a server.
* The status of a player is listed below their name.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Netherite leggings]]'''
* Changed the texture of the worn netherite leggings model.

=== General ===
'''Accounts'''
* When logging in with a Microsoft account, players blocked in that account are now also blocked in the game, and account restrictions are now respected.

'''Accessibility'''
* A button to open a link to the accessibility guide can now be found in the "Accessibility Options" screen.

'''[[Crash]]es'''
* More information is now added to the crash log in cases where poor performance causes the server to crash.

'''[[Options]]'''
* Added "joinedFirstServer" option to {{mono|[[options.txt]]}}.

'''[[Protocol version]]s'''
* New network protocol scheme, with a high bit (bit 30) set for snapshots. The protocol version will increase by 1 for each snapshot, but full releases may keep the same protocol version as the previous full release in cases where the network protocols are compatible.

'''[[Multiplayer]]'''
* When the server and client version are incompatible, a message reading "Incompatible version!" in red will be displayed, instead of "Client out of date!" or "Server out of date!" in dark red.
* When multiplayer is disabled, the message displayed now reads, "Multiplayer is disabled. Please check your Microsoft account settings." instead of "Multiplayer is disabled. Please check your launcher settings."

'''[[Splash]]es'''
* The splashes relating to the Black Lives Matter movement have been added to {{mono|splashes.txt}}. These splashes were added to the game via a launcher update during [[Java Edition 1.16.2|1.16.2]] but were not in {{mono|splashes.txt}}. The splashes are:
** Black lives matter!
** Be anti-racist!
** Learn about allyship!
** Speak OUT against injustice and UP for equality!
** Amplify and listen to [[wikipedia:BIPOC|BIPOC]] voices!
** Educate your friends on anti-racism!
** Support the BIPOC community and creators!
** Stand up for equality in your community!

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|fixedin=1.16.4 Pre-release 1, 1.16.4 Pre-release 2, 1.16.4 Release Candidate 1
|;From 1.16
|192434|The top front texture of worn netherite leggings is inconsistent with the rest of the texture.
|;From 1.16.2
|199487|World generation deadlock causes crash.
|;From 1.16.3
|201885|Divide by zero error in the ender dragon entity class can cause a server crash and infinite velocity.
|;dev
|202147|Cursor in Social Interactions & Recipe Book & Anvil menu doesn’t blink
}}

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|Fz5F1FoXoYM}}

== Trivia ==
* This was the last full version to be released in [[Timeline of events|2020]].
* Originally, this version was going to be released on October 29, 2020, but it got postponed by 4 days.

== Note ==
* Minecraft 1.16.4 and Minecraft 1.16.5 are network compatible, that is, 1.16.4 servers can have players from 1.16.5.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.16.4]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.16.4]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.16.4]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.16.4]]
[[pl:Java Edition 1.16.4]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.16.4]]
[[ru:1.16.4 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 1.16.4]]
[[zh:Java版1.16.4]]