{{Infobox version
|title=15w43b
|edition=Java
|image=15w43a.png
|image2=Java Edition 15w43b.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=October 22, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=fb00ac4550199a99a3976f185309fcfe7e1ed1a6
|jsonhash=cf68e682555c704dec3796db1b2ae7f6f84b31ed
|serverhash=3154e2f53b1a50159d53f0dc8e4f47857344690f
|exehash=80709ba40fc4b9b621b162db1c67e31932b1ada6
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w43a
|next=15w43c
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w43b''' is the thirty-fifth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on October 22, 2015<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20151022162831/https://www.mojang.com/2015/10/minecraft-snapshot-15w43a/</ref> to fix an issue with multiplayer from the previous snapshot and to get custom drop tables working, as well as add subtitles.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Subtitles]]'''
* Display sounds for the hard of hearing/deaf.
** Mobs have individualized subtitles, for example: "Creeper hissing".
** "<" or ">" points in the direction the sound is coming from.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Water]]'''
* No longer shows the flowing animation when directly adjacent to [[glass]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Elder guardian]]s'''
* Drop chances for [[raw fish]] or [[prismarine crystals]] changed again. 
** Now it's a 50% chance for fish, 33% for crystals, and 16.7% of nothing, with the amount increased by [[Looting]].

'''[[Ghast]]s'''
* Drops reverted back to 0–2 [[gunpowder]] and 0–1 [[ghast tear]]s, incremented as usual with [[Looting]].

'''[[Rabbit]]s'''
* Drop [[Rabbit's foot|feet]] again as a rare drop.
* Meat drop is no longer affected by [[Looting]].

'''[[Skeleton]]s'''
* Drops reverted back to 0–2 [[arrow]]s and 0–2 [[bone]]s, incremented as usual with [[Looting]].

'''[[Squid]]'''
* Now drop 0–2 [[ink sac]]s (was 1–3), incremented as usual with [[Looting]].

'''[[Wither skeleton]]s'''
* Coal drop changed to 0–2 [[coal]], incremented as usual with [[Looting]]. This is still an increase over [[15w42a]].
* Bone drop reverted back to 0–2 [[bone]]s, incremented as usual with [[Looting]].

'''[[Zombie pigmen]]'''
* Drops reverted back to 0–1 [[rotten flesh]] and 0–1 [[gold nugget]]s, incremented as usual with [[Looting]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Igloo]]s'''
* [[Golden apple]] is now always present, and no longer disappears if the chunk is unloaded before the [[chest]] is opened.
* Made the basement walls less uniform.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w43b|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|2931|Boat location desync.
|35790|Stationary water shows flowing animation at the sides of glass blocks.
|72878|Name plate is inside baby villager's head.
|;dev
|90096|Dispensers don't dispense all types of boats.
|90576|Frost walker turns flowing water into frosted ice.
|;previous
|91043|<code>Packet 0/72 (ia) was larger than I expected, found 19 bytes extra whilst reading packet 72</code>.
|91044|Language selection screen is empty.
|91046|Missing <code>pack.mcmeta</code> on default resource pack.
|91098|Rabbits doesn't drop rabbit foot.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|lYIEKAG7tak}}

== Trivia ==
* 15w43b was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w43b]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w43b]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w43b]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w43b]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w43b]]
[[ru:15w43b (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w43b]]