{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 12w42a
|image=12w42a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 12w42a.png
|edition=java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.4.2
|date=October 17, 2012
|clientdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.4/pre/12w42a.jar Client] ([https://meta.omniarchive.uk/versions/v1/12w42a.json .json])
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w42a.jar Server]
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w42a.exe .exe]
[[Category:Versions using legacy download site]]
|prevparent=1.3.2
|prev=12w41b
|next=12w42b
|nextparent=1.4.4
}}<onlyinclude>

'''12w42a''' is the fourteenth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.4.2]], released on October 17, 2012.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20121019034945/http://www.mojang.com/2012/10/minecraft-snapshot-12w42a/</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Anvil]]s'''
* New crafting recipe, now costs 31 [[iron ingot]]s instead of 55.
* The player can [[Item repair|repair]] items ([[tool]]s and [[armor]]) using their source material. 
** To get a tool or piece of armor to its maximum durability when it is nearly broken, one must use four of its source material ([[planks]], [[cobblestone]], [[iron]], [[gold]] or [[diamond]]s). 
** However, [[hoe]]s are not able to be repaired.
* Reduced [[experience]] level cost.

'''[[Redstone repeater]]s'''
* When powering either side of a repeater directly with another repeater, it locks the current state of the other repeater until the signal to the powering repeater is turned off.
** If a repeater that is on is locked, it stays on.
** If a repeater that is off is locked, it cannot output a signal.
* When locked, the repeater's second torch is no longer be visible and a bar textured similarly to [[bedrock]] appears.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Bat]]s'''
* Can no longer trample crops, activate [[pressure plate]]s or [[tripwire]].

=== General ===
'''[[Language]]'''
* Updated language file.

'''[[Server]]s'''
* IPs can now be individually hidden.

'''[[Controls]]'''
* Added the ability to use numbers to move items from or to the hotbar in an inventory GUI.

== Fixes ==
'''9 bugs fixed'''
* Fixed very damaged anvils dropping from at least 6 blocks becoming a glitched entity that cannot be removed until the map is reloaded.
* Fixed digging straight down glitching the player into blocks again.
* Fixed PvP-disabled servers still allowing players to set other players on fire using [[Fire Aspect]] enchanted [[sword]]s.
* Fixed dropping from low heights doing damage on certain occasions.
* Fixed dropping an anvil on an [[end crystal]] crashing the game.
* Fixed the game sometimes crashing when using {{key|F3+H}} to show durability on items and then moving the mouse over a non-blank map.
* Fixed the game crashing when maximizing the game while in the anvil UI.
* Fixed a stack overflow error when dispensers attempted to place [[water]] or [[lava]] into a [[solid block]].
* Fixed the [[crafting table]] and [[cauldron]] that spawn in [[swamp hut]]s spawning at the top of the hut.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.4.2 development versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition development versions released in 2012]]

[[de:12w42a]]
[[es:Java Edition 12w42a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 12w42a]]
[[it:Java Edition 12w42a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 12w42a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 12w42a]]
[[nl:12w42a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 12w42a]]
[[ru:12w42a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版12w42a]]