{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 13w05a
|image=13w05a.png
|image2=Java Edition 13w05a.png
|edition=java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.5
|date=January 31, 2013
|clientdl='''Original:'''
<br> [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.5/pre/13w05a-1504.jar client] ([https://archive.org/download/Minecraft-JSONs/13w05a.json .json]) 
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.5/pre/13w05a-1503.jar server] 
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.5/pre/13w05a-1503.exe .exe])
'''Reupload:'''
<br> [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.5/pre/13w05a-1538.jar client] ([https://archive.org/download/Minecraft-JSONs/13w05a.json .json]
|otherdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.5/pre/13w05a-1537.jar server] ([https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.5/pre/13w05a-1537.exe .exe])
|prevparent=1.4.7
|prev=13w04a
|next=13w05b
|nextparent=1.5.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''13w05a''' is the seventh [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.5]], released on January 31, 2013<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20130202182251/http://www.mojang.com/2013/01/minecraft-snapshot-13w05a/</ref> which adds snow layers.

13w05a was reuploaded shortly after release to update two translation strings for the scoreboard command.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Snow]]'''
* Fully implemented multiple snow heights.
* Drops one [[snowball]] for every layer of snow.
* Each level of snow has its own height collision.
** The topmost layer of snow does not have collision, so the player is always slightly sunken in the snow.
** Visually, four layers of snow is the same height as a slab. However, five layers of snow have the same collision height as a slab.
* Crafting recipe is 3 snow blocks in a row to create 6 snow layers.
** For each thin layer of snow crafted, the player loses exactly half the snowballs required to produce it.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]s'''
* Increased range.
* Effects are infinite upwards with the beam.
** 1 layer: 41 blocks diameter (previously 33). 
** 2 layers: 61 blocks (previously 49). 
** 3 layers: 81 blocks (previously 65).
** 4 layers: 101 blocks (previously 81).

'''[[Comparator]]'''
* Now uses the 8s bit on block 149 to represent its ''powered'' state, rather than a separate block ID, 150.  
** Block 150 is deprecated.

'''[[Stairs]]'''
* Improved lighting.
* No longer prevent sprinting.

=== Items ===
'''[[Bone meal]]'''
* Everything now randomly takes 2-3 uses to fully grow.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Scoreboard]] '''
* Added team mechanics including custom name colors, friendly fire options and objective tracking per team instead of per player.
* Added a new display type – displays value below nametags.
* Added a new criterion – health, ranging from 0 to 20.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=13w05a|prefix=Snapshot
|;old
|666|Spawn Protection not working properly.
|1324|{{cmd|difficulty}} command doesn't produce any messages.
|1775|Hash size breaks redstone.
|2987|Can't sprint going up stairs.
|4232|SpawnPotentials list working incorrectly.
|8437|URL parser does not detect 4 letter TLDs.
|8487|Wither doesn't generate health when in minecart.
|8510|Gamerule doMobLoot doesn't affect xp drops.
|;dev
|6032|Comparator outputs "pulse" when side signal is on.
|6039|The delay of the comparator is inconsistent.
|6077|Comparators causes block updates while idle.
|6536|Comparator is miscounting Hopper's contents.
|6640|Comparators trying to lock Repeaters even if their output is 0 (graphical).
|6941|SRV is no longer used to lookup servers.
|6951|High-res texture pack items have garbage on edges.
|7087|Mining activator rail isn't boosted by pickaxe.
|8172|TNT defuses when traveling between dimensions.
|;previous
|8186|Scoreboard vanishes when changing dimensions.
|8189|Right-clicking with a helmet in hand crashes the game.
|8222|Dispenser will put on stacks of armor.
|8277|Scoreboard system doesn't accept @a.
|8389|Giant Mushrooms still grow instantly from bonemeal.
|8416|Furnace Minecarts drop a minecart and TNT.
}}</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.5 development versions]]

[[de:13w05a]]
[[es:Java Edition 13w05a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 13w05a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 13w05a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 13w05a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 13w05a]]
[[ru:13w05a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版13w05a]]