{{Infobox version
|title=15w35a
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 15w35a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=August 24, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=2880da12d8997ad4c669b7531a09e64c7e038f10
|jsonhash=4ab25b24d191d46add8c53bb8714c5fd113bd2e6
|serverhash=a3a1c19d861bce39a129ef18226449ea02afb58a
|exehash=e0165bd93b2397274429b70b7ffee41eb507e72a
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w34d
|next=15w35b
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w35a''' is the fourteenth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on August 24, 2015.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2015/08/minecraft-snapshot-15w35a/</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Command block]]s'''
* Now have an option of "Needs Redstone" or "Always Active".
** "Needs Redstone" is the previous behavior (default).
** "Always Active" causes the command block to always behave as if it was powered.
** Also changeable via the <code>auto</code> tag for all command blocks.
* New textures.
** Darkened outlines on the center panel.
** The back of the [[arrow]] texture is now curved when the command block is set to conditional.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Zombie villager]]s'''
* New <code>VillagerProfession</code> tag is used to determine what profession the mob is represented as, as well as what profession it becomes when cured.
** Zombie villagers now have different textures based on their profession and career.
** The tag is always conserved upon transformation and curing.

=== Gameplay ===
'''Combat'''
* [[Shovel]] base attack damage reduced from 4.5 to 2.5.
* [[Pickaxe]] attack speed reduced from 1.5 to 1.2.
* [[Axe]] base attack damage reduced from 8 to 7.
* Axe attack speed increased from 0.85 to 0.9.
** This slightly reduces the damage per second.
* [[Hoe]] attack damage is now always 1.
* Hoe attack speed now increases by 1 every tier, starting at 1.

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center" data-description="New attack speed / damage"
|+ Attack speed and damage
! Item
! Attack speed
! colspan="4" | Attack damage
! colspan="4" | Damage per second (DPS)
|-
| [[Sword]]s
| 1.45
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Sword}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Sword}} {{hp|4}}
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Sword}} {{hp|5}}
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Sword}} {{hp|6}}
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Sword}} {{hp|7}}
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Sword}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Sword}} 5.8
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Sword}} 7.25
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Sword}} 8.7
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Sword}} 10.15
|-
| [[Axe]]s<ref group="note" name="durability">dealing damage with an axe, pick, or shovel decreases its durability by 2.</ref>
| 0.9
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Axe}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Axe}} {{hp|7}}
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Axe}} {{hp|8}}
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Axe}} {{hp|9}}
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Axe}} {{hp|10}}
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Axe}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Axe}} 6.3
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Axe}} 7.2
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Axe}} 8.1
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Axe}} 9
|-
| [[Pickaxe]]s<ref group="note" name="durability" />
| 1.2
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Pickaxe}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Pickaxe}} {{hp|2}}
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Pickaxe}} {{hp|3}}
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Pickaxe}} {{hp|4}}
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Pickaxe}} {{hp|5}}
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Pickaxe}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Pickaxe}} 2.4
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Pickaxe}} 3.6
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Pickaxe}} 4.8
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Pickaxe}} 6
|-
| [[Shovel]]s<ref group="note" name="durability" />
| 1
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Shovel}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Shovel}} {{hp|2.5}}
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Shovel}} {{hp|3.5}}
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Shovel}} {{hp|4.5}}
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Shovel}} {{hp|5.5}}
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Shovel}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Shovel}} 2.5
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Shovel}} 3.5
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Shovel}} 4.5
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Shovel}} 5.5
|-
! Item
! Attack damage
! colspan="4" | Attack speed
! colspan="4" | Damage per second (DPS)
|-
| [[Hoe]]s
| {{hp|1}}
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Hoe}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Hoe}} 1
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Hoe}} 2
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Hoe}} 3
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Hoe}} 4
| {{ItemSprite|Wooden Hoe}}{{ItemSprite|Golden Hoe}} 1
| {{ItemSprite|Stone Hoe}} 2
| {{ItemSprite|Iron Hoe}} 3
| {{ItemSprite|Diamond Hoe}} 4
|}
{{notelist}}

=== General ===
'''[[Attribute]]s'''
* The <code>Slot</code> string tag within <code>AttributeModifiers</code> determines which slot the modifier is applied to.
* Available slots are: "mainhand", "offhand", "feet", "legs", "torso", "head".
* e.g.: <code>give @p minecraft:diamond_chestplate 1 0 {AttributeModifiers:[{AttributeName:"generic.maxHealth",Name:"Test",Amount:10.0,Operation:0,UUIDLeast:1l,UUIDMost:1l,Slot:"torso"}]}</code>.

'''Optimization'''
* Experimental performance enhancements.
* Fixed client memory leaks.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w35a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|2664|Floating mob heads above baby mobs that wear them/baby zombie hitbox too high.
|45763|Some blocks are facing the wrong way if placed in an item frame.
|;previous
|86925|Running out of memory when exiting.
|86937|Empty chunks duplicate one-another and cause weird behavior.
|87050|(2 bugs in one) glitch with adding attributes to items in 1.9.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|0_P8i0dQ2-k}}

== Trivia ==
* Unlike most of the first-of-the-week snapshots, this was released on a Monday instead of Wednesday.
* This version was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.
* Zombies that spawn in this version don't have AI.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w35a]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w35a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w35a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w35a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w35a]]
[[ru:15w35a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w35a]]