{{DISPLAYTITLE:Java Edition Classic 0.0.19a_04}}{{Infobox version
|title=0.0.19a_04
|image=Classic 0.0.19a 04.png
|edition=Java
|prefix=Classic
|date=June 20, 2009
|server=[[Classic server 1.6|1.6]]
|clientdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-classic/c0.0.19a_04.jar Client]
|jsondl=[https://www.mediafire.com/file/7btvn0tthlowoht/c0.0.19a_04.json/file .json]
|prevparent=0.0.19a
|prev=0.0.19a_03
|next=0.0.19a_05
|nextparent=0.0.20a
}}

'''0.0.19a_04''' is a version of [[Java Edition Classic]] released on June 20, 2009, at 00:53 UTC.<ref name="info">[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''P7:49:51 <Notch> if you're running too fast, it SHOULD kick you. But the client really should throttle it better''" [...] "''P7:52:15 <Notch> the client sends movement data while downloading the level''" [...] "''P7:52:25 <Notch> that could DEFINITELY cause the too much lag thing''" [...] "''P7:53:28 <Notch> _04 is up now, fixing that''", "''P7:53:36 <Notch> if you still get kicked in _04, let me know''" (June 20, 2009, 00:49 to 00:53 UTC)</ref>

This version has no actual changes.

== Fixes ==
* Tried again to fix a bug where the client incorrectly throttles players that get kicked for running too fast due to the client sending movement data while downloading a level.<ref name="info"/>
** This fix again did not work.<ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''P7:59:14 <Rroff> anyone else getting "rubber band lag" since the update?''" [...] "''P7:59:34 <Rroff> and getting kicked for "Cheat Detected: Too much lag"''" [...] "''P8:00:13 <Rroff> I get a feelig of taking 1 step forward, 2 steps back''" [...] "''P8:02:05 <Rroff> when jumping its very odd''", "''P8:02:10 <Rroff> I suddenly go fast then slow in spurts''" (June 20, 2009, 00:59 to 01:02 UTC)</ref>
** Notch said that a bug caused this in the sampling of his time adjustment code.<ref>[[#logs|IRC logs]]: "''P8:02:59 <Notch> ok, that's the sampling time of my time adjustment code''" (June 20, 2009, 02:59 UTC)</ref>

== Bugs ==
'''1 bug reported'''
* [[Water]] tiles have light blue bits in their borders.

== References ==
* {{anchor|logs}}[https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/DBN-IRC-Logs/ IRC logs] on Archive.org; #minecraft.20090619.log. June 19, 2009 (UTC&minus;5).
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[Category:Versions with no changes]]

[[es:Java Edition Classic 0.0.19a 04]]
[[ja:Java Edition Classic 0.0.19a 04]]
[[lzh:爪哇版古典版〇點〇點一九甲之四]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic 0.0.19a 04]]
[[ru:Classic 0.0.19a 04 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Classic 0.0.19a 04]]
[[Category:Java Edition Classic versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition Multiplayer Test Classic versions]]