{{Infobox version
|title=12w49a
|image=12w49a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 12w49a.png
|edition=java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.4.6
|date=December 7, 2012
|clientdl= [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.4/pre/12w49a.jar Client] ([https://meta.omniarchive.uk/versions/v1/12w49a.json .json])
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w49a.jar Server]
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w49a.exe .exe]
|prevparent=1.4.5
|prev=
|next=12w50a
|nextparent=1.4.7
}}<onlyinclude>

'''12w49a''' is the first [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.4.6]], released on December 7, 2012,<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20121209202854/http://www.mojang.com/2012/12/minecraft-snapshot-12w49a</ref> which added nether brick slabs, enchanted books and fireworks.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Nether brick slab]]s'''
* New kind of [[slab]].
* Made by using 3 [[nether bricks]] blocks in a horizontal line.
* Came from a suggestion at [[Minecon 2012]].<ref>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YG9RNyRhIow&feature=youtu.be&t=1499</ref>

=== Items ===
'''[[Enchanted book]]s '''
* Used for [[enchanting]] items.
** In this snapshot due to a bug, any item could be given any enchantment in Survival mode using an [[anvil]].

'''[[Firework rocket]] '''
* New kind of shootable projectible.
** Sound effects will come soon.
* Fireworks are customizable by crafting.

'''[[Firework star]]'''
* Used for crafting [[firework rocket]]s.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''General '''
* When holding {{ctrl|sneak}}, the player can place blocks and items (like [[redstone]], [[repeater]]s, and [[lever]]s) directly onto blocks such as [[crafting table]]s, [[furnace]]s, and [[dispenser]]s.

'''[[Cobweb]]s'''
* Can be harvested utilizing [[Silk Touch]] shears.

=== Items ===
'''[[Shears]]'''
* Can now have the [[Silk Touch]] enchantment by using the [[anvil]].

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Ghast]]s'''
* The blast radius of [[fireball]]s a specific ghast shoots can be customized with an editor.

== Removals ==
=== General ===
'''[[Java Edition distance effects/Historical effects|Distance effects]]'''
* [[Falling block]] behavior has changed - they are no longer capable of infinitely producing dropped items at high coordinate values.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=12w49a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|96|using the number keys to move an item out of a furnace does not give [[XP]].
|256|Mobs can still revert [[farmland]] to [[dirt]] even if mobGriefing gamerule is set on false.
|498|Setting an [[enderman]] on fire with flint and steel, or lava, will not make it teleport away.
|721|Animals on [[fire]] do not flee.
|1140|Boats always get placed in the same direction and not based on how they get placed.
|1240|Endermen cannot dodge flame arrow. When the arrow is shot the Enderman moves out of the way but is still set on fire.
|1311|When entering the Nether, the game auto-selects the first item on the toolbar.
|1847|[[Leaves]] have the incorrect tool tip.
|2145|"Drowning" in [[Creative]] mode.
|2504|Enchant command cannot enchant with ID 0 (Protection).
|3332|The XP level-up sound, which appears every 5 levels, does not play.
|3490|[[Minecart]]s and falling entities flicker.
|3501|Passive mob spawn eggs are not consumed upon use.
|3565|Endermen do not open their mouth when attacked by other mobs.
|4069|Pressing {{key|F3+B}} displays hitboxes rendering invisibility potions useless.
|4117|The wither can sometimes destroy its own star due to the posthumous detonation of wither skulls.
}}</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.4.6 development versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition development versions released in 2012]]

[[de:12w49a]]
[[es:Java Edition 12w49a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 12w49a]]
[[it:Java Edition 12w49a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 12w49a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 12w49a]]
[[lzh:一二週四九甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java 12w49a]]
[[ru:12w49a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版12w49a]]