{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 12w39a
|image=SP 12w39a image.png
|image2=Java Edition 12w39a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.4.2
|date=September 27, 2012
|clientdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/client-release/1.4/pre/12w39a-1243.jar Client] ([https://archive.org/download/Minecraft-JSONs/12w39a.json .json])
|serverdl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w39a-1243.jar Server]
|exedl=[https://vault.omniarchive.uk/archive/java/server-release/1.4/pre/12w39a-1243.exe .exe]
[[Category:Versions using legacy download site]]
|prevparent=1.3.2
|prev=12w38b
|next=12w39b
|nextparent=1.4.4
}}<onlyinclude>

'''12w39a''' is the eighth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.4.2]], released on September 27, 2012.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20120927175148/http://www.mojang.com/2012/09/minecraft-snapshot-12w39a/</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Witch]]es'''
* Changed texture dimensions from 64x126 to 64x128 pixels.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Lighting]]'''
* System was overhauled.
** Many [[block]]s ([[stairs]], [[slab]]s, [[piston]]s, etc.) previously incorrectly lit now interact correctly with lighting.

'''[[Sound]]s'''
* Several tweaks to pre-existing sounds.

=== General ===
'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* Now shows which [[chunk]] the player is in, as well as where in that chunk, next to the X and Z [[coordinates]].

== Fixes ==
'''4 bugs fixed'''
* Sound fixes:
** Placing [[glass]], [[glass pane]], [[glowstone]], [[redstone lamp]] or [[ice]] no longer make the same sound of breaking it.
** After shooting an arrow into the water, it does not play continuously the water splash sound until removed.
* Fixed [[witch]] being white for some players.
* Unlit areas (black patches<ref>{{tweet|dinnerbone|250952827608915969}}</ref>) should be fixed for newly generated chunks and worlds.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[Category:Java Edition 1.4.2 development versions]]
[[Category:Java Edition development versions released in 2012]]

[[de:12w39a]]
[[es:Java Edition 12w39a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 12w39a]]
[[it:Java Edition 12w39a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 12w39a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 12w39a]]
[[nl:12w39a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 12w39a]]
[[ru:12w39a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版12w39a]]