{{Infobox version
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 14w32a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=August 6, 2014
|parent=1.8
|clienthash=66b8ed45eb1e8d687d269f2f26e4d20edd07333a
|jsonhash=d64a982daf815491ef04cdf8a38b1c915da83ba1
|serverhash=d3b96be87d921fa4f95ea43e5283a253b778f24e
|exehash=dd19fe6e7d03d8ea62361083873354be0ee7b0e3
|prevparent=1.7.10
|prev=14w31a
|next=14w32b
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''14w32a''' is the forty-second [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.8]], released on August 6, 2014,<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140807175846/https://mojang.com/2014/08/minecraft-snapshot-14w32a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w32b|author=[[Dinnerbone]]|website=Mojang.com|date=August 6, 2014}}</ref> which adds [[red sandstone]], [[armor stand]]s, and the <code>NoAI</code> tag.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Red sandstone]]'''
* Can be crafted with 4 [[red sand]] in a square.
* Can be crafted into chiseled, smooth, stair and slab forms.
** Chiseled variant has a wither pattern to complement the normal creeper pattern.
** Slabs have (like stone and sandstone) a smooth variant.
** Comes as a smooth double slab - <code>minecraft:double_stone_slab2:8</code>.
* Generated only in mesa biomes at cave entrances.

=== Entities ===
'''[[Armor stand]]s'''
* Can be used to decoratively display armor (including pumpkins, mob heads, and player heads).
** Armor can be right-clicked to be applied to the armor stand and can be applied by dispensers.
** Armor can be applied by dispensers aimed at any part of the stand.
** Armor can be removed by right-clicking on the piece of armor player wants to remove.
** Can render enchanted and dyed armor.
* Crafted using any stone-type slab and 6 [[stick]]s.
* Stacks up to 16.
* Armor stands are actually entities not blocks and can, therefore, be summoned using {{cmd|summon ArmorStand}} and put in [[minecart]]s.
* NBT data can be used to create armor stands which are small (<code>Small</code>), invisible (<code>Invisible</code>), have arms (<code>ShowArms</code>), have disabled slots (<code>DisabledSlots</code>), have no gravity (<code>NoGravity</code>) and are in a preconfigured position (<code>Pose</code>).

=== Command format ===
'''[[NBT format]]'''
* <code>NoAI</code> tag can be applied to entities to disable their AI.
** Entities without AI do not attack players or move or rotate on their own, and do not despawn, they also do not respond to gravity or collision with other mobs, but can still take damage, die, and ride other entities.

=== General ===
'''[[Splash]]'''
* Added "This is good for realms."

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]s'''
* Beacon beams are colored when going through [[stained glass]] and [[stained glass pane]]s.
** Making it feed into multiple [[stained glass]] blocks/panes combines the colors.

'''[[Coarse dirt]]'''
* Tilling coarse dirt with a hoe turns it to regular [[dirt]].

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Health]] bar'''
* Has a new animation for the [[damage]], that additionally shows how many hearts a player loses.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=14w32a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|268|"Jump Boost" does not reduce fall damage.
|2911|Gamerule commands allow parameters other than true/false.
|2930|Heart bar doesn't show how much damage is dealt to the player.
|3664|Golden carrot Creative misplacement.
|3718|Textures and effects are off when far away from the center of the map.
|3818|Playing stacked music discs in jukebox will duplicate them.
|3884|No splash sound when items dropped in water.
|3995|Dry sponges don't suck up water blocks around it.
|4772|Head items not rendered properly in 3D.
|29431|Search function returns some extra potion results.
|37946|Pick block on grassless dirt gives dirt.
|48760|Redundant code.
|50039|Only get the "Overkill" achievement if player deals at least 9 hearts of damage, even though the description says 8 hearts.
|50848|Enderpearl thrown before death teleports after respawn.
|64571|Ender dragon destroys command blocks.
|;dev
|55228|Sandstone spawning in mesa biome at cave entrances.
|56799|Portals sometimes multiply by 8 twice.
|58503|Trapdoor in inventory/in the distance has white edges around holes.
|60925|Falling sand with chest as block ID crashes the game.
|61565|Spectator mode description.
|63226|Grass block doesn't block the sunlight.
|64260|Death by lightning bolt claims players go up in flames.
|;prev
|64409|Item names are in brackets.
|64472|Crash while playing 14w31a.
|64497|Led animals cannot jump up 1 block.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 14w32a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:14w32a]]
[[es:Java Edition 14w32a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 14w32a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 14w32a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 14w32a]]
[[ru:14w32a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版14w32a]]