{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft Combat Test 8c
| image = Java Edition Combat Test 8c.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| parent = Combat Tests
| date = August 26, 2020
| clienthash = 177472ace3ff5d98fbd63b4bcd5bbef5b035a018
| jsondl = [https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/ea08f7eb1f96cdc82464e27c0f95d23965083cfb/1_16_combat-6.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
| clientmap = 5ea38a7b8d58837c97214f2a46e5e12151d51f83
| serverhash = b707c44ac1503ad179fde86c78d41aa4d0cc78a5
| servermap = d89f9e0eb8fbe6f2c91e749e8b59391cd0dd96d4
| prevparent = 
| prev = Combat Test 8b
| next = 
| nextparent = 
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 8c''' is the ninth and most recent experimental version of a future combat revision which changes the mechanics of shields.<ref name=":1">{{reddit|url=idvujw|title=Here we go again... Combat test snapshot 8b|author=jeb_|date=August 21, 2020}}</ref> Although it is a development version for a future release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.16.2|1.16.2]]. This version was released only on {{w|Reddit}}, so it does not appear in the [[launcher]] or in any [[Minecraft.net]] blog post. This is the final combat test released in 2020.

== Changes ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Shield]]s'''
* Fixed [[Knockback (mechanic)|knockback]] calculations for shields.
* Disabled crouch-shielding while jumping.
* Shields with banners are now much stronger than normal shields (10 absorption instead of 5, increased knockback resistance).
** This is just a quick way of testing different types of shields without adding new items, and is not going to actually be implemented.<ref name=":1">{{reddit|url=idvujw|title=Here we go again... Combat test snapshot 8b|author=jeb_|date=August 21, 2020}}</ref></onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|xbYvjSvO_KA}}

== Trivia ==
* Combat Test 8c has the same [[protocol version]] as [[Combat Test 8]] and [[Combat Test 8b]], which means these versions are cross-compatible with each other.
** This is a rare time where 3 development versions have had the same protocol version.

== Notes ==
{{Notelist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[de:Combat Test 8c]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 8c]]
[[fr:Édition Java Test de combat 8c]]
[[ja:Java Edition Combat Test 8c]]
[[ko:Java Edition 전투 테스트 8c]]
[[lzh:爪哇版鬭測八丙]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 8c]]
[[ru:Combat Test 8c (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java Combat Test 8c]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 8c]]