{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 18w48a
|image=18w48a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 18w48a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=November 29, 2018
|clienthash=8c2c778a22201836bf482a8ed06e1b1f994c61e3
|jsonhash=31474d84c9c427381364b1af1101724c78bc7d19
|serverhash=f0f04983d197388b05a4647f7a7cf8b5fbbac5d3
|parent=1.14
|prevparent=1.13.2
|prev=18w47b
|next=18w48b
|nextparent=1.14.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''18w48a''' is the ninth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.14]], released on November 29, 2018,<ref>{{snap|18w48a|id=b|November 29, 2018}}</ref> which overhauls plains [[village]]s.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrel]]s, [[bell]]s, [[blast furnace]]s, [[brewing stand]]s, [[cartography table]]s, [[fletching table]]s, [[lectern]]s, [[loom]]s, [[smoker]]s, [[smithing table]]s, and [[stonecutter]]s'''
* Can now generate naturally inside plains villages.

'''[[Bed]]s'''
* Now have an accurate hitbox.<ref>{{bug|MC-4090||Bed Hit Box is Incorrect|WF}}</ref>{{Verify}}

'''[[Grindstone]]s'''
* Changed texture.
* Now craftable using two [[stick]]s, two [[planks]], and one [[stone slab]].
* Now have a GUI with 2 input slots and 1 output slot.
* Can now combine two damaged items into one and/or remove non-curse enchantments.
** For each enchantment removed, some experience is returned.
* Can be found at plains village weaponsmiths.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Slightly modified trades.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|locate}}'''
* Can locate the new villages, using the <code>New_Village</code> parameter.

=== Generated structures ===
'''{{BiomeLink|Plains}} [[village]]s'''
* Village houses now have a drastically different structure and there are many more types.
* Use [[jigsaw block]]s for generation.
* Added new structure and loot table files for the new village houses.

=== General ===
'''[[Crafting]]'''
* Recipes for combining damaged items have been removed; these are now done using the grindstone.

'''Dedicated [[servers]]'''
* [[server.properties]]
** <code>difficulty</code> and <code>gamemode</code> settings now accept string names; integer values are still allowed as legacy option.
* Server now exits faster if <code>eula.txt</code> is not set.
* Command line:
** Added new option <code>--help</code>.
** Added new command line option <code>--initSettings</code>.
*** Initializes <code>eula.txt</code> and <code>server.properties</code> with defaults, then exits.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=18w48a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|103192|Combining tools or armor adds to crafting stat.
|113897|Wooden planks paths for villages are used for lava as well.
|118323|{{code|magenta_dye_from_lapis_ink_bonemeal}} recipe and its advancement are misnamed.
|;dev
|138633|The title screen needs updating in 1.14 snapshots.
|139378|"Exception while ticking" crash when Scaffolding falls onto a Shulker Box.
|139692|Chests in ocean ruins not opening.
|139694|Water blocks aren't filled in if above an ocean ruin.
|139955|Ocean ruins can spawn completely obliterated in certain chunks.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|3dKC3mgTSD8}}

== Trivia ==
* Unlike most of the first-of-the-week snapshots, this was released on a Thursday instead of Wednesday, similar to the snapshots before [[14w26a]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:18w48a]]
[[es:Java Edition 18w48a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 18w48a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 18w48a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 18w48a]]
[[ru:18w48a (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 18w48a]]
[[zh:Java版18w48a]]