{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 25w35a
|sort=25w35a
|image=25w35a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 25w35a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=August 26, 2025
|jsonhash=2a482c3518bd90286c269b818e3d9e902544d1d8
|clienthash=7a568fdd55454ef89f621562caf6c35e242c58c6
|clientmap=c92882471da3d825df718fbdb4c8cad04f3ed5ec
|serverhash=7fb6965adce075e4e6b467ca620f59c76c0f1e52
|servermap=6899b52a04c68eabf3ed5a737459967afeb650e2
|parent=1.21.9
|prevparent=1.21.8
|prev=25w34b
|next=25w36a
|nextparent=1.21.10
}}<onlyinclude>
'''25w35a''' is the sixth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.21.9]], released on August 26, 2025, which adds the [[Minecraft Server Management Protocol]], moves some server properties to [[game rules]], improves [[copper golem]] behavior, and fixes bugs.<ref>{{snap|25w35a|August 26, 2025}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Game rule]]s'''
* Added <code>pvp</code> game rule controlling whether players can deal damage to other players.
** Defaults to <code>true</code>.
* Added <code>allowEnteringNetherUsingPortals</code> game rule controlling if [[the Nether]] can be entered through portals.
** Defaults to <code>true</code>.
* Added <code>spawnMonsters</code> game rule controlling if [[monster]]s should spawn naturally.
** Defaults to <code>true</code>.
* Added <code>enableCommandBlocks</code> game rule controlling if [[command block]]s should be enabled or not.
** Defaults to <code>true</code>.

'''[[Language]]s'''
* Added {{w|Galicia (Eastern Europe)|Halychian}} language support.

'''[[Minecraft Server Management Protocol]]'''
* Added a server management API (JSON-RPC over WebSocket) for dedicated servers.
** The API is disabled by default and can be enabled in the server properties file.
*** <code>management-server-enabled=true</code>
*** <code>management-server-host=localhost</code>
*** <code>management-server-port=25585</code>
** The API is accessible at <code>ws://<management-server-host>:<management-server-port></code> when enabled.
** Supports querying and updating of server state (players, allowlist, operators, settings, game rules).
** Sends notifications on state changes (e.g. player joins, game rule updates).
** Calling <code>{"id":1,"method":"rpc.discover"}</code> returns an API schema containing supported methods and notifications of the currently running server.
** The Data Generator produces an API schema (<code>json-rpc-api-schema.json</code>) in the reports output folder mirroring the contents returned by the <code>rpc.discover</code> method.
** The API adheres to the JSON-RPC 2.0 specification.
** Uses namespaced methods and the reserved namespaces are <code>minecraft</code> (e.g. <code>minecraft:players</code>, <code>minecraft:allowlist/add</code>) and notification (e.g. <code>notification:players/joined</code>).
*** Extensible via custom namespaces for additional methods and events.
** Core method groups: players, allowlist, operators, server (save, stop), server settings, game rules.
** Example method call:
*** Request: <code>{"method":"minecraft:allowlist/add","id":1,"params":[[{"name":"jeb_"}]]}</code>
*** Response: <code>{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":1,"result":[{"id":"853c80ef-3c37-49fd-aa49-938b674adae6","name":"jeb_"}]}</code>
** Example notification:
*** <code>{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"notification:players/joined","params":[{"id":"853c80ef-3c37-49fd-aa49-938b674adae6","name":"jeb_"}]}</code>
** Example error:
*** Request: <code>{"method": "minecraft:foo/bar","id": 1}</code>
*** Response: <code>{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":1,"result":{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":1,"error":{"code":-32601,"message":"Method not found","data":"Method not found: minecraft:foo/bar"}}}</code>
*** Errors and error codes follow JSON-RPC 2.0 error object format.

'''[[Options]]'''
* Added "Allow Cursor Changes" option in "Mouse Settings" menu.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Copper Chest]]'''
* Copper chests created from spawning a copper golem now correctly connect to nearby copper chests.

'''[[Hanging Sign]]'''
* Hanging signs can now only be crafted using [[iron chain]]s.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Copper Golem]]'''
* Hitbox has been tweaked.
** The hitbox is now 0.98 blocks in height to be able to pathfind in one block high spaces.
* The copper golem now uses the saddle equipment slot for blocks placed atop of its lightning rod.
** Its head equipment slot will now function like a regular head slot, akin to its functionality for humanoid mobs.

=== General ===
'''[[Data pack]]'''
* The [[pack format]] version is now <code>85.0</code>.
* Renamed <code>chain</code> to <code>iron_chain</code>.

'''Mouse cursor'''
* Some UI components will now change shape of mouse cursor.
** Examples: text inputs, numeric sliders, buttons, scroll bars.
* Additionally, clickable parts of text labels (like links) will now change cursor to the "hand" shape.
* This feature can be disabled with "Allow Cursor Changes" option in "Mouse Settings..." menu.

'''[[Resource pack]]'''
* The version is now <code>67.0</code>.
* Renamed the following block sprites: <code>chain</code> to <code>iron_chain</code>.
* Renamed the following item sprites: <code>chain</code> to <code>iron_chain</code>.

'''[[Server.properties]]'''
* Several server properties were removed in favour of making them into game rules, allowing these settings to be changed while the server is running.
* Removed server property <code>allow-nether</code> in favor of new game rule.
* Removed server property <code>spawn-monsters</code> in favor of new game rule.
* Removed server property <code>enable-command-block</code> in favor of new game rule.
* Removed server property <code>pvp</code> in favor of new game rule.
* Added server property <code>management-server-enabled</code> controlling whether the new Minecraft Server Management Protocol is enabled or not.
** Defaults to <code>false</code>.
* Added server property <code>management-server-port</code> controlling on what port the Minecraft Server Management Protocol is started.
** Defaults to <code>25585</code>.
* Added server property <code>management-server-host</code> controlling with what host the new Minecraft Server Management Protocol is started.
** Defaults to <code>localhost</code>.
* Added server property <code>status-heartbeat-interval</code> controlling the interval the management server sends heartbeat notifications to connected clients.
** Defaults to <code>0</code>, meaning it’s disabled.

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Renamed {{cd|chain}} to {{cd|iron_chain}} from {{cd|#chains}} block and item tag.

'''[[Text component format]]'''
* object Text Component
** This component has been updated to support displaying other non-character objects as a part of text.
** New format:
*** <code>object</code>: type of object, string, see below for values.
*** <code><type-specific></code>: additional fields depending on object type.
** Similarly to <code>nbt</code> text component <code>object</code> field can be omitted.
*** However, it's recommended to provide it for error checking.

* atlas Object Type
** Behaves the same way as the <code>object</code> component did previously, but is now a separate object type.
** Uses the same format as before.

* player Object Type
** Renders player head.
** If partial profile is given, skin is resolved in the same way as <code>minecraft:profile</code> component on player head.
** Format:
*** <code>player</code>: player profile
**** <code>name</code>: player name, optional string
**** <code>id</code>: player uuid, optional UUID
**** <code>properties</code>: profile properties, optional map
*** <code>hat</code>: controls rendering of a hat layer, boolean, default <code>true</code>

'''UI'''
* When adding a new server to the server list, the name is no longer prefilled. When left empty the default name is used.
* More text inputs now support selecting text by mouse dragging.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|project=MC|fixedin=25w35a
|;From 1.21.3
|278550|While flying in creative or spectator mode, the surface of water can prevent you from sprinting.
|;From 1.21.6
|297126|"Failed to read field..." error spam when upgrading a 25w15a or 25w16a world.
|;dev
|300044|Z-fighting occurs when the heads of copper golems intersect their bodies.
|300049|The debug text is rendered on top of the debug options.
|300054|Double oxidized copper chest texture UV is missing pixels.
|300067|Copper golems continue their chest searching animations while dying.
|300074|No particles are produced when scraping oxidation off copper golems.
|300089|Chests sometimes get stuck in inverted states after being interacted with by copper golems.
|300102|Shelves float when held in the player's hand in third person.
|300103|Removing items from a shelf uses the "Item placed" caption.
|300119|Copper golems don’t always avoid dangerous blocks when pathfinding to chests.
|300124|All the oxidation states of the lightning rod are listed in the redstone tab of the creative inventory.
|300129|Copper golems can't put items into chests above them.
|300173|The Copper Chest textures' diagonal glint direction doesn't match the large chest variants' on some sides.
|300229|Z-fighting on antenna when putting certain blocks above a copper golem statue.
|300267|The miniature mobs inside spawners and trial spawners are sometimes lit incorrectly.
|300301|Shelves produce unusually high-resolution particles due to having a 32x32 texture.
|300304|Comparators can stay active when measuring the pose of a copper golem statue block which is revived.
|300462|Copper golems attached to leads still attempt to pathfind toward chests.
|300501|Variants of copper chests are not included in the "Redstone Blocks" tab in the creative inventory whereas normal chests are.
|300568|Copper golems don't open chests if given room to walk about.
|300688|The iron chain's block/item ID is still "{{cd|chain}}".
|300703|The underside of double copper chests does not use a merged texture.
|300744|The copper and iron nuggets are inverted and arranged incorrectly in the Creative mode inventory.
|300762|Copper golems require at least 3 blocks of space above a chest to place anything.
|300797|The glowing effect causes entities to render incorrectly inside of inventories.
|300827|Pressing {{key|F3+Q}} in certain screens does not show help, despite {{key|F3}} suggesting it.
|300977|Clocks function in the recipe book/villager/crafter UI.
|301023|When a warden applies the darkness effect to you, the chat interface, item bar, and items become dark.
|301025|End flash purplish light saturation is affected by brightness values.
|301026|End flash purplish light becomes extremely saturated when the player is affected by darkness.
|301048|In the "sitting" pose, the copper statue’s rod becomes shorter.
|301101|Certain similar blocks are positioned differently on copper golems' heads.
|301224|The first few stages of block cracks are not rendered on chests.
|301225|Game crashes when quitting creating new world menu without other worlds created before.
|301226|Block cracks no longer render on banners.
|301228|Block cracks no longer render on heads and skulls.
|301230|The word "resolve" is misspelled as "resolved" within the "{{cd|commands.profile_fetch.id.failure}}" string.
|301231|Enchanting table book animations are not independent.
|301236|Enchantment glint is no longer visible on held tridents.
|301242|Enchantment glint is no longer visible on shields.
|;prev
|301273|Clicking on the join server hover button now selects the server, unless any server is already selected.
|301290|Game crashes when trying to render a glowing enchanted item.
|301295|TTF font provider oversample increases width of characters.
|301328|Glowing item entities briefly turn white upon pickup.
|301339|Miniature mobs inside spawners always render fully lit.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|tCVV004OceM|SiQESnoyoCQ}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:25w35a]]
[[es:Java Edition 25w35a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 25w35a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 25w35a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 25w35a]]
[[ru:25w35a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:25w35a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版25w35a]]