{{Infobox version
|title=13w38a
|image=13w38a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 13w38a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=1.7.2
|date=September 19, 2013
|clienthash=5eddd7089cf7535281927be7f183e62a6d9fdfd3
|jsonhash=e6dc1d9f9c8efeec67af438d5bf61be082f6e8a4
|serverhash=627585cdb9386e7f05cdfb8f092e5a303d4fd5f3
|exehash=5b1a28f0ba642f1fe1d0476b9ffa7faa6f307888
|prevparent=1.6.4
|prev=13w37b
|next=13w38b
|nextparent=1.7.4
}}<onlyinclude>

'''13w38a''' is the fifth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.7.2]], released on September 19, 2013<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2013/09/minecraft-snapshot-13w38a/</ref>.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''Commands'''
* Added {{cmd|setidletimeout <minutes until kick>}} to automatically kick idle players after a set length of time.
** Multiplayer-only command, can be used only by server operators.

'''[[NBT format]]'''
* Added <structure>.dat files in data folder for storing structure data.
** Contains files called "Village.dat" ([[village]]s), "Fortress.dat" ([[nether fortress]]es), "Temple.dat" ([[desert pyramid]]s, [[jungle temple]]s, and [[witch hut]]s), "Stronghold.dat" ([[stronghold]]s), "Mineshaft.dat" ([[mineshaft]]s), and others.
* NBT structure consists of the individual parts of each structure, labeled "children", the chunk it originates in, a tag called BB, and an ID for what type of structure it is.
** The children tags have information on each part of the structure and the type of part it is

=== General ===
'''[[Achievement]]s'''
* Added the achievement "Diamonds to you!", which is obtained by throwing [[diamond]]s at another player.

'''[[Lighting]]'''
* The [[sky]] near the horizon now darkens when the player has blocks between them and the sky.
** The greater the distance between the player and an area open to the sky, the darker the sky appears.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Map]]s'''
* Improved placing maps into [[item frame]]s.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Zombie]]s'''
* Reduced lag from the zombies.

=== General ===
'''[[Achievement]]s'''
* Improved achievements.
* When a player earns an achievement, it is now announced in chat. 
** This can be disabled on servers in the [[server.properties]].

'''"Super Secret Settings"'''
* The button now applies different experimental [[shaders]].
* List of available shaders: antialias, deconverge, outline, art, desaturate, pencil, bits, flip, phosphor, blobs, fxaa, scan_pincushion, blobs2, green, sobel, blur, invert, wobble, color_convolve, NTSC.

'''Video settings'''
* Render distance is now a slider ranging from 2 to 16 chunks.
* The sky is now visible on short (4 chunks) render distance.
* The chunks can now render past 12 chunks.
* Max framerate is now a slider ranging from 10 to 250 fps, then unlimited.
* Added mipmapping, anisotropic filtering, and FSAA (as a shader).
* Mipmap levels setting is a slider ranging from off to 1 through 4.
* Anisotropic filtering can be disabled or set to 2, 4, 8 or 16.
* Post-processing (shaders) can be toggled.
** They now display on the whole block.

'''[[Fog]]'''
* Re-adjusted fog distance to appear near the render distance limit, reverting changes made in [[13w36a]]. 
* Fog now covers 25% of the view distance, compared to 75% before 13w36a.

== Removals ==
=== General ===
'''[[Java Edition distance effects/Historical effects|Distance effects]]'''
* [[Item frame]]s now no longer simply follow the camera at extreme coordinates.
** This is due to them being affected by an even more extreme bug as of this snapshot.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=13w37b|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|28625|The [[horse armor]] equip sound does not play when replacing it with already equipped armor.
|31065|Villages were not generating (snapshot [[13w37b]]).
|;dev
|30483|When the player sets their render distance too far it stays on normal.
|30694|[[Endermen]] stare sound still plays when the enemy [[mob]]s sound slider is at 0%.
|30822|[[Enchanted book]]s with no metadata.
|30858|A player selector with only one matching player outputs as " and USERNAME .."
|3973|Players who mine redstone lamps with Silk Touch would get a lit redstone lamp in their inventory.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 13w38a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time but was added back in September 2018.
* As with [[13w38b]], this snapshot was released on the same day as [[Java Edition 1.6.4|1.6.4]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:13w38a]]
[[es:Java Edition 13w38a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 13w38a]]
[[it:Java Edition 13w38a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 13w38a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 13w38a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 13w38a]]
[[ru:13w38a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版13w38a]]