{{conjecture}}
{{Infobox development phase
|title=Early Classic
|image=Early Classic Creative.png
|startver=[[0.0.11a]] (May 17, 2009)
|latestver=[[0.0.14a_08]] (May 28, 2009)
|paid=No
|prevparent=Pre-Classic
|prev=Classic private alpha
|next=Multiplayer Test
|nextparent=Indev
}}

'''Early Classic''' refers to 15 versions of '''[[Java Edition Classic]]''' released from May 17 to May 28, 2009, that succeeded the [[Java Edition Classic private alpha|private alpha of Classic]] and preceded [[Multiplayer Test]]. The game was now publicly published by Notch for public consumption on Minecraft.net. Creative singleplayer remained the only mode available at this time and there were only a limited amount of blocks available in-game.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Bedrock
|Sand
|Gravel
|Gold Ore
|Iron Ore
|Coal Ore
|Oak Log
|Oak Leaves
|Water
|Lava}}

=== [[Block]]s ===
; [[Bedrock]]
: Unobtainable to the [[player]]. 
; [[Sand]] and [[gravel]]
: Only appear naturally in one block-thick beach (usually by water or in the middle of a landscape). These beaches were always at and below ocean level.
: Rather than falling by turning into a falling block entity, sand instantly appears at the lowest point it could go when placed above an air block, without any sort of falling animation.
; [[Gold ore]]
: Found in higher elevations, gold ore was often found in exposed surface-level blobs.
; [[Iron ore]]
: Spawns in huge blobs, sometimes big enough to protrude into 3 caverns, and can have as many as 167 ores.
; [[Coal ore]]
:
; [[Log]]s and [[leaves]]
: Spawn as trees found around the map.
; [[Water]] and [[lava]]
: In the early water test, water rendered as an opaque block. With the addition of lava, both liquids rendered as transparent. Lava was later changed to opaque.
; [[World generation]]
: An infinite ocean surrounds the map.
: "Huge" level size.

== Trivia ==
* Once during [[Java Edition Classic 0.0.14a/Development|development of 0.0.14a]], Notch tested vertex offsets of blocks, but was not satisfied, likely in part due to a graphic bug which showed block previews and highlights as cubes. <ref>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bj4eZcldAEo</ref>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[es:Java Edition Classic Temprano]]
[[ja:Java Edition Early Classic]]
[[lzh:古典前創]]
[[pt:Edição Java Early Classic]]
[[ru:Early Classic (Java Edition)]]
[[th:โหมดสร้างสรรค์ลาสสิกตอนต้น]]
[[uk:Early Classic (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:早期创造]]