{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 20w20a
|image=20w20a.png
|image2=Java Edition 20w20a.png
|date=May 13, 2020
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|clienthash=2b171fb288bfd9c845f99015cbccf1d38bdaef65
|jsonhash=647210e26814933d29be51af2e3e0bb99ea3f4f3
|serverhash=f06a943eb107494688b4447b97514af6d7311623
|clientmap=539b7ecdeee283c4afa0c40889392e670906cf94
|servermap=f1fe695debf3ab5ff71dc3685e5d6729f8a07690
|parent=1.16
|prevparent=1.15.2
|prev=20w19a
|next=20w20b
|nextparent=1.16.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''20w20a''' is the sixteenth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.16]], released on May 13, 2020,<ref name="20w20a">{{snap|20w20a|May 13, 2020}}</ref> which adds several new advancements and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''<code>entity_properties</code>'''
* Now has <code>vehicle</code> and <code>targetedEntity</code> properties, which match the vehicle or the entity targeted by a mob.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Advancement]]s'''
* Added ten new advancements:
** Hidden in the Depths
*** Obtain [[ancient debris]].
** Cover Me in Debris
*** Get a full suit of netherite [[armor]].
** Country Lode, Take Me Home
*** Use a [[compass]] on a [[lodestone]].
** Who is Cutting Onions?
*** Obtain [[crying obsidian]].
** Not Quite "Nine" Lives
*** Charge a [[respawn anchor]] to the maximum.
** This Boat Has Legs
*** Ride a [[strider]] with a [[warped fungus on a stick]].
** Hot Tourist Destinations
*** Explore all [[Nether]] biomes.
** Those Were The Days
*** Enter a [[bastion remnant]].
** War Pigs
*** Open a chest in a bastion remnant.
** Oh Shiny
*** Distract an aggressive [[piglin]] with any item piglins "love" while not wearing any golden armor.
* All of these advancements are located in the "Nether" tab.
** "Cover Me in Debris" and "Hot Tourist Destinations" are challenge advancements, while the others are normal advancements.
* Added a <code>smokey</code> property to the <code>location</code> trigger which checks if the location is closely above a campfire.
* Added <code>thrown_item_picked_up_by_entity</code> advancement trigger.
** <code>item</code> matches the thrown item which was picked up.
** <code>entity</code> matches the entity which picked up the item.
* Added <code>player_generates_container_loot</code> advancement trigger.
** <code>loot_table</code> matches the resource location of the generated loot table.
* Added <code>item_used_on_block</code> advancement trigger.
** <code>location</code> matches the location at the center of the block the item was used on.
** <code>item</code> matches the item used on the block.

=== General ===
'''[[Game mode]] toggling'''
* Added the [[game mode switcher]], allowing quick game mode switching functionality using the {{key|F3}} debug key.
** Hold {{key|F3}} and press {{key|F4}} to open the menu. Pressing {{key|F4}} or using the mouse cycles the game mode. Release {{key|F3}} to apply.
** The last game mode is remembered and is the first selected option, so it is possible to quickly toggle between two game modes with a single press of {{key|F3 + F4}}.
* {{key|F3+N}} now toggles between spectator mode and the previous game of the player.

'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added <code>piglin_loved</code> item tag.
** Contains gold ingots, gold tools, gold armor, golden apples, enchanted golden apples, golden horse armor, golden carrots, blocks of gold, gold ore, nether gold ore, gilded blackstone, light weighted pressure plates, bells, glistering melon slices, and clocks.
** Piglins "love" items in this tag, meaning they actively seek them out. They also view players holding an item in this tag as holding a "loved" item.
** Used in the "Oh Shiny" advancement.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Shulker]]s'''
* Shulkers with <code>NoAI</code> can now be summoned with rotation.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Advancement]]s'''
* The "Bullseye" advancement has been changed.
** Now unlocks when hitting the center of a [[target]] block from at least 30 blocks away.
** Is now a challenge advancement and rewards 50 experience.
** Changed the description from "Hit the bullseye of a Target block with an arrow" to "Hit the bullseye of a Target block from at least 30 meters away."
* The "Serious Dedication" advancement has been changed.
** Is now awarded for obtaining a [[netherite hoe]].
** Changed the description from "Completely use up a diamond hoe, and then reevaluate your life choices" to "Use a Netherite ingot to upgrade a hoe, and then reevaluate your life choices."
* Striders are now required for "Two by Two."<!--The Parrots and the Bats already worked-->
* Obtaining blackstone now also counts for the "Stone Age" advancement.
* Changed the description of "Not Today, Thank You" from "Deflect an arrow or trident with a shield" to "Deflect a projectile with a shield."
* Changed the description of "Ice Bucket Challenge" from "Form and mine a block of obsidian" to "Obtain a block of obsidian."
* Removed the <code>safely_harvest_honey</code> advancement trigger as it was made redundant by <code>item_used_on_block</code>.

'''[[Bartering]]'''
* Piglins can no longer give netherite hoes.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=20w20a
|;old
|118234|Advancement "Not Today, Thank You" can be triggered by non-arrow projectiles.<!--"Fixed" by changing description, not disallowing other projectiles-->
|;dev
|173207|Bullseye advancement can be made when using a non-arrow projectile, even though the description explicitly mentions arrows.<!--"Fixed" by changing description, not disallowing other projectiles-->
|173756|Ice Bucket Challenge advancement can be obtained by collecting obsidian from bartering.<!--"Fixed" by changing description, not changing the advancement's behavior-->
|175992|Striders are not part of the "Two by Two" advancement challenge.
|179481|Structure block offset cannot be bigger than 32.
|181482|Dying while riding an entity respawns the player next to that entity if the gamerule {{cd|doImmediateRespawn}} is true.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|wuL2_MWvZDg}}

== Trivia ==
* This version was released 11 years after the first public showcase of ''Minecraft'' in the video "''[[Cave game tech test]]'' ".

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:20w20a]]
[[es:Java Edition 20w20a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 20w20a]]
[[it:Java Edition 20w20a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 20w20a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 20w20a]]
[[ru:20w20a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版20w20a]]