{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 21w17a
|image=21w17a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 21w17a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=April 28, 2021
|jsonhash=cb67b76b0db3c31b4d56152b49392f9bcbdb2489
|clienthash=6f0597c8dfef133d59cdce2c629a37f0e259512b
|clientmap=ef21afb3f08a213441012c16455210cd35e52a2a
|serverhash=ec995f939bb41a785f960985e73821c7044fc32e
|servermap=993c616af95fb18c76524dbb190fcd425b60fc48
|otherdl={{dl|6d37f3c37d583e45f0d792f0eccd315032ada0fa|custom|name=CavesAndCliffsPreview.zip|title=Data pack}}<ref group=note>Re-enables features set to release for [[Java Edition 1.18|1.18]].</ref>
|parent=1.17
|prevparent=1.16.5
|prev=21w16a
|next=21w18a
|nextparent=1.17.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''21w17a''' is the nineteenth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.17]], released on April 28, 2021,<ref>{{snap|21w17a|April 28, 2021}}</ref> which tweaks the textures of raw metal blocks, adds noodle caves and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added the <code>small_dripleaf_placeable</code> block tag.
** Contains [[clay]] and [[moss block]]s.
** [[Small dripleaf]] can be placed on blocks in this tag.

=== Experimental ===
Changes have been made to the official Caves & Cliffs world generation preview data pack, which gives early access to the world generation coming in [[Java Edition 1.18]].

'''Noodle [[cave]]s'''
* A thinner, squigglier, tighter variant of spaghetti caves.
* These are an improved version of the mesh caves announced around Minecraft Live.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Amethyst cluster]]'''
* Removed unused 'lit' blockstate.

'''Blocks of raw metal'''
* Tweaked the textures of [[raw iron block]]s, [[raw copper block]]s, and [[raw gold block]]s.

'''[[Copper ore]] and [[deepslate copper ore]]'''
* Now drops 2–3 [[raw copper]] when mined, or more when using a tool enchanted with [[Fortune]].

'''[[Deepslate coal ore]] and deepslate copper ore'''
* Now can spawn naturally.

'''[[Block of copper]]'''
* Is now crafted from 9 [[copper ingot]]s, instead of 4.

'''[[Hanging roots]]'''
* Can now be [[waterlogged]], to match the behavior {{in|BE}}.<ref>{{bug|MC-220033||(Parity issue) Hanging Roots can't be waterlogged|Fixed}}</ref>

'''[[Small dripleaf]]'''
* Can now also be placed on [[moss block]]s.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Wither]]'''
* Is now immune to [[freezing]].

=== World generation ===
'''[[Ore]]'''
* [[Emerald ore]] can now replace [[granite]], [[andesite]], [[diorite]], [[tuff]], and [[deepslate]] upon generating.
* If [[coal ore]] or [[copper ore]] replace tuff or deepslate, they become their deepslate variants.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Recipe book]]'''
* The recipe for crafting mossy stone bricks from moss blocks or vines is now unlocked with moss blocks or vines, respectively, rather than mossy cobblestone.
* The recipes for dyed candles are now grouped.
* The recipes for smelting and blasting ores into their respective materials are now grouped by ore type (i.e. smelting coal ore and deepslate coal ore are grouped).
** For iron, gold, and copper, the recipes for smelting and blasting their raw materials into ingots are also grouped with their respective ore smelting and blasting recipes.
* The recipes for crafting copper ingots from copper blocks and waxed copper blocks are no longer grouped.<ref>{{bug|MC-224389|||Fixed}}</ref>
* The recipes for mossy stone bricks are now grouped, as are the recipes for mossy cobblestone.
* Many of the waxed copper block recipes were grouped together.

=== General ===
'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added the wither to the <code>freeze_immune_entity_types</code> entity type tag.

=== Experimental ===
Changes have been made to the official Caves & Cliffs world generation preview data pack, which gives early access to the world generation coming in [[Java Edition 1.18]].

'''[[Ore vein]]s'''
* Snake veins are now slightly rarer and slightly smaller.
* Ores are clumpier and less evenly distributed.
* Now have a chance to rarely contain [[Block of Mineral#Raw Metal|raw metal block]]s.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=21w17a
|;old
|170443|Banner copying recipe ignores existence of other items in crafting grid.
|187664|World border uses float to determine its size, making some border sizes inaccessible, and cannot be set to 30 million or beyond.
|197805|Minecraft crashes every time when attempt to craft something (caused by BungeeCord or Paper).
|201269|Constantly teleporting player to a phantom crashes the game/kicks the player.
|;dev
|203570|Candles aren't grouped in the recipe book.
|203745|Repeated teleport between dimensions causes the entity to duplicate on the client.
|204031|Waxed Cut Copper (any level of weathered) have two separate recipes in the recipe book.
|214187|Void platform generates multiple times.
|214735|Horse disappears when dying while riding it and reloading the world while it's unloaded.
|214838|Big dripleaf stem remains after breaking a stem or leaf above it.
|214865|Floating islands world type generates extreme terrain.
|219155|Fishing line only starts on half distance between the fishing rod and bobber (Apple M1 only).
|219840|You cannot unlock the recipe for Mossy Stone Bricks.
|219842|Recipes for mossy cobblestone and mossy stone bricks aren't grouped.
|220033|(Parity issue) Hanging Roots can't be waterlogged.
|221560|Copper/Coal Ore in Deepslate Patches aren't Deepslate Ores.
|222008|Empty/missing template pool error grammar mistake.
|222107|sounds/mob/goat/pre_ram3.ogg missing from <code>entity.goat.prepare_ram</code> sound event.
|222520|Raw and Ore smelting previews aren't grouped together.
|223055|Amethyst buds and cluster have an unused blockstate.
|223792|Shrinking world border with center past x/z {{=}} 29999983 crashes the game.
|;previous
|224029|Fishing line becomes increasingly thinner the closer to the rod it gets on some devices.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|Vm06pGJi4fY|MYyOCgkqh1Y}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Notes ==
{{Notelist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:21w17a]]
[[es:Java Edition 21w17a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 21w17a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 21w17a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 21w17a]]
[[ru:21w17a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版21w17a]]