{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.18 experimental snapshot 3
|image=1.18 Experimental Snapshot 1 banner.jpg
|image2=1.18 experimental snapshot 3 reddit.png
|image3=Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 3 menu.png
|edition=Java
|type=Experimental snapshot
|date=August 10, 2021
|jsondl={{dl|846648ff9fe60310d584061261de43010e5c722b|custom|name=1_18_experimental-snapshot-3.zip|title=.json}}{{fn|Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.}}
|clienthash=7d7acdf4165867cd7334bfa5f3f00af742c5ce16
|clientmap=6685e6de966b4970d947302f55376913454cf512
|serverhash=cbe106c19f5072222ce54039aa665a8aaf97097d
|servermap=7751261f6f27641bd605b579bc00598fc4afd556
|parent=1.18
|prevparent=1.17.1
|prev=1.18 experimental snapshot 2
|next=1.18 experimental snapshot 4
|nextparent=1.18.1
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''1.18 Experimental Snapshot 3''' is the third experimental snapshot for [[Java Edition 1.18]], released on August 10, 2021,<ref>{{Mcnet|new-world-generation-java-available-testing|New world generation in Java available for testing|August 10, 2021|Henrik Kniberg}}</ref><ref>{{reddit|p1pc9d/minecraft_118_experimental_snapshot_3_is_out||Minecraft 1.18 experimental snapshot 3 is out!|MrHenrik2|August 10, 2021}}</ref> which makes numerous changes to world generation and fixes bugs from previous experimental snapshots.

== Additions ==
=== World generation ===
'''{{BiomeLink|Stony Peaks}}'''
* A new mountains biome that is a variant of lofty/snowcapped peaks that uses stone and strips of gravel, instead of snow and ice.
** Is used to avoid temperature clashes.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Mob spawning is now consistent throughout all [[altitude]]s increasing spawn rates in higher altitudes and decreasing spawn rates in lower altitudes.
** The spawning rates are similar to [[Java Edition 1.17|1.17]]'s spawning rate at y=64.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Aquifer]]s'''
* Aquifers can go deeper and are more likely to connect with cave systems further down.
* Added more high-frequency variation to aquifers, to reduce the risk of massively huge areas with waterfilled caves everywhere.
** Underground lakes and flooded regions are more likely to be spread out instead of concentrated in one region.

'''[[Badlands]]'''
* Tweaked badlands so they sometimes show up in flat areas next to plateaus, and made the red sand generate higher up (to account for the generally higher terrain).
* Eroded badlands no longer create floating pillars on top of the water surface.

'''[[Biome]]s'''
* Tweaked biome placement to reduce the chance of temperature clashes. 
* Tweaked biome placement to allow for more noisiness and diversity.
** This allows for the reintroduction of microbiomes.

'''[[Beach]]es'''
* Tweaked beaches a bit, to make them more inclined to show up on flat coastlines rather than hilly areas.
* Reduced the amount of stone shores.

'''[[Desert temple]]s'''
* Desert temples spawn on the surface rather than at a fixed y-level.

'''[[Mountains]]'''
* Made peak biomes and meadows less likely to generate in flat low elevation areas.
* Snowy slopes and snowcapped peaks no longer place dirt under the snow.

'''[[Pillager outpost]]s'''
* Now generate in all the new mountain biomes. 

'''[[Swamp]]s'''
* Swamps are less likely to overlap cold or dry biomes, and they no longer place hanging water.

'''[[Village]]s'''
* Now generate in [[meadow]]s.

'''General'''
* Smoothed out the cliffs in shattered terrain a bit.
* Coastlines and river banks are less likely to be intersected by aquifers.
** Local water levels are mostly used in terrain that doesn't border a river or ocean.
** Cave openings and ravines that intersect an ocean or river mostly use sea level.
* Inland low-elevation areas are less likely to have flooded caves everywhere.
* Grass no longer generates underwater.
* Reduced the chance of incorrect surface placement.
* Reduced the chance of river biome generating in dry mountain gorges.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed goats not spawning in the new mountain biomes.
* Fixed an issue where players in multiplayer can face far more or far fewer enemies than intended, particularly when other players are flying.
* {{bug|MC-30560}} was fixed by this version, although it was not marked as such due to the bug tracker not handling experimental snapshots.</onlyinclude>

== Issues ==
This version is not supported on the bug tracker, and therefore issues affecting it will be resolved as "Invalid".<ref>{{bug|MC-231984}}</ref>

== Videos ==
{{Slicedlime|vQJjLrk07fM}}

== Notes ==
{{Fnlist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.18-es3]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 3]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.18 experimental snapshot 3]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 3]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.18 experimental snapshot 3]]
[[ru:1.18 experimental snapshot 3 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 1.18 experimental snapshot 3]]
[[zh:Java版1.18-exp3]]