{{Infobox version
|title=15w46a
|edition=Java
|image=15w46a.png
|image2=Java Edition 15w46a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=November 12, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=101e4c37464438ef7fe9dc12113a3ea828eac4f0
|jsonhash=ed28a3f252a40cd4dfa3a84f9c7a1aab5f79493b
|serverhash=f0f25f22430b0c122308244f210df66ae3ce7894
|exehash=979e26f45ba7cbb80c633828a3c206c0e872508b
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w45a
|next=15w47a
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w46a''' is the fortieth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on November 12, 2015.<ref>{{link|url=https://www.mojang.com/2015/11/minecraft-snapshot-15w46a/|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151113051511/https://www.mojang.com/2015/11/minecraft-snapshot-15w46a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 15w46a|author=Searge|website=Mojang.com|date=Nov 12, 2015}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Banner]]s & [[sign]]s'''
* Now replace replaceable blocks such as [[grass]], instead of trying (and failing) to be placed on them.

'''[[Farmland]]'''
* Mobs smaller than 0.512 cubic blocks can no longer turn farmland to dirt by jumping or falling on it.
** This includes [[rabbit]]s, [[chicken]]s, [[bat]]s, [[ocelot]]s, [[wolves]], [[cave spider]]s, [[endermite]]s, [[silverfish]], small [[slime]]s, small [[magma cube]]s, and all current baby mobs.

'''[[Iron bars]]'''
* Their sides now include an edge texture.

'''Rails'''
* [[Powered rail]]s and [[activator rail]]s now transmit power to each other.

'''[[Redstone]]'''
* Hitbox for redstone is now smaller based on the connections, similarly to [[fence]]s.

'''[[Redstone block]]s'''
* Now emit power through adjacent blocks.
** Reverted in [[15w47a]].

=== Items ===
'''Filled [[bucket]]s'''
* Now replace single snow layers when {{control|used}} on the top, instead of placing the water or lava in the air above the snow layer.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Mobs can no longer spawn inside blocks that block movement but are transparent, such as [[leaves]].
* Also, mobs can no longer spawn in blocks containing any type of [[rail]]s, buttons, tripwire hooks, pressure plates, levers, redstone torches, redstone repeaters, comparators, or redstone dust.
* Something about rendering has changed; screenshots taken with the exact same position, viewing angle, FOV, etc. as an equivalent screenshot in 15w45a or earlier will differ.{{info needed|what changed, exactly?}}

'''[[Iron golem]]s'''
* If spawned in 15w46a and later, they have 100% knockback resistance.

'''[[Rabbit]]s'''
* Smaller than before.
* Chance to drop a rabbit's foot is now 10% + 3 percentage points per level of Looting (was 2.5% + 1 percentage point per Looting).
* Now only spawn in deserts, flower forests, taiga, mega taiga, cold taiga, ice plains, ice mountains, ice plains spikes, and "hills" and "M" variants of these biomes. Even in these biomes, spawn chance is somewhat reduced (weight 4 out of 44–52 rather than 10 out of 50–58).
* Are faster when panicking.
* No longer prefer begging for food to mating.
* Non-killer rabbits now avoid players within 8 blocks and most hostile mobs within 4 blocks (except slimes, magma cubes, and ghasts), and move faster when doing so. Also, avoidance range for wolves was reduced from 16 to 10 blocks.
* Health reduced from {{health|10}} to {{health|3}}.
* Naturally-spawned rabbit's skin depends on the biome. When breeding rabbits, there is a 5% chance the baby matches the biome rather than either parent.
** In a snowy biome, 80% white and 20% black & white.
** In a desert or desert hills, 100% gold.
** Otherwise, 50% brown, 40% salt & pepper, 10% black.
* <code>MoreCarrotTicks</code> no longer has any effect.
** When destroying crops, <code>MoreCarrotTicks</code> is set to 40 rather than 100.
* Rabbits eating carrot crops now reduces the growth stage by 1 level, only removing the crop block entirely if the growth stage was 0.

'''[[Snow golem]]s'''
* No longer leave a trail of snow if the [[game rule]] <code>mobGriefing</code> is false.

'''[[Wolves]]'''
* Collar, when tamed, is now red, as it had been in releases before 1.8, rather than orange.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Ocean monument]]s'''
* Now require a 16 block square radius of deep ocean, not just a single deep ocean block at the center.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Experience]]'''
* Now is collected at the middle rather than at the head.
** This means that if a large amount of experience is collected, it no longer blocks the player's view.
* Blocks no longer drop XP when the <code>doTileDrops</code> gamerule is false. 

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w46a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|128|3rd person view reverts to 1st person view if head inside a block (corner a one block wide tunnel in a minecart, ride on a horse through a block, piston, etc.).
|415|Leaves replace transparent blocks.
|1701|Flying through a portal in Creative turns off "fly mode" on the other side.
|1752|Breaking doors moves the other part of the door sometimes.
|1846|First-person perspective parallax problem.
|2631|{{cmd|defaultgamemode}} not changing tag on world selection screen.
|3480|superflat generating air.
|3634|Blocks incorrectly able to be placed on end portal frame/end portal frames are solid.
|3776|IPv6 does not work.
|3867|Mob inside mob spawner "stutters" if no player is in spawn range or spawner is outside world border.
|4839|Sprinting stops after certain distance/time.
|5951|Comparator side input does not recognize all types of redstone power sources.
|7849|No step sound when walking on anvils.
|8565|Underwater: TNT dispensed into a block above a dispenser visually appears above the block.
|11149|Redstone hitbox not allowing block below to be hit.
|11519|Epilepsy trigger from collecting a lot of EXP.
|11790|Since the advent of 1.5, we can no longer put a water seal on the snow, water is placed in the block above the snow.
|11996|Mining an anvil plays no sound.
|13818|Unable to see horse health in Creative.
|19243|Breath icon misplaced with absorption.
|29362|<code>WitherBoss</code> health bar showing from spawners.
|35665|Glass panes don't join up correctly with ice blocks.
|38422|Blocks drop XP with <code>doTileDrops</code> set to false.
|49370|<code>mobGriefing</code> false snowman snow placing.
|54109|Wolfs collar is orange instead of red.
|57569|Wither moves during shield generation/wither attacking before initial explosion.
|62041|Untamed horses continue consuming food after reaching 100% tameability (0 temper)/tamed horses continue consuming golden food after already in love mode.
|62118|Iron bars model issues.
|64139|Cannot place banner or sign on snow layer level 1.
|64492|Changes to mob spawning algorithm (Mobs don't require 'Air'-block for spawning cycle).
|65214|Guardians are spawned in random places.
|68443|Distant mobs don't despawn when changing to Peaceful.
|72834|Horse suffocates when tries to jump on block with 2-high roof.
|78635|Stopping a server after save-off causes unexpected data loss.
|80807|NBT data for <code>SmallFireballs</code> is incomplete.
|91299|Rabbit legs twitching.
|;From the 1.8 development versions
|45842|Reads from java are slow due to many system calls.
|52254|{{cmd|spreadplayers}} sometimes teleports players underground, sometimes suffocates them.
|;dev
|84306|Glowing aura doesn't work if team color is set to reset.
|86983|Cobblestone walls flicker when being moved with slime blocks.
|87920|Enderman looks backwards in {{cmd|gamemode 3}}.
|88875|Donkey and Mule have swapped textures.
|91025|Redstone fix - color changing beacon.
|92148|Crash when selecting 'Teleport to team member' in Spectator mode.
|;previous
|92137|Stairs' UV Mapping is upside-down.
|92144|Hopper: <code>java.lang.ClassCastException: ahw cannot be cast to ahn</code>.
|92167|"Realms Notifications" option in options menu.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|IpFQhPhfGbQ}}

== Trivia ==
* Unlike most of the first-of-the-week snapshots, this was released on a Thursday instead of Wednesday, similar to the snapshots before [[14w26a]].
* 15w46a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w46a]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w46a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w46a]]
[[it:Java Edition 15w46a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w46a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w46a]]
[[ru:15w46a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w46a]]