{{Distinguish|Java Edition Alpha}}
{{Infobox development phase
|title=Minecraft alpha
|image=0.0.9a Bridge (cropped).png
|startver=[[mc-161607]] (May 16, 2009)
|latestver=[[0.0.10a]] (May 17, 2009)
|prevparent=Pre-Classic
|next=Early Classic
|nextparent=Indev
|paid=No
}}

The '''early private singleplayer alpha'''<ref name=won></ref> of [[Java Edition Classic]] refers to the earliest released versions of ''[[Minecraft]]''. These versions were released under the name "'''Minecraft alpha'''" for private testing for select users in IRC.<ref name="-0">{{link|url=https://archive.org/download/Minecraft_IRC_Logs_2009/history/files/May-15-to-June-03-2009/2009-05-16.075419-0400EDT.txt.~1~|title=TigIRC logs|date=May 16, 2009, UTC–4|website=Archive.org}}: "''(12:07:06) notch: minecraft alpha is available. I need someone on windows, someone on mac and someone on linux!''"</ref> These versions were not meant for public consumption.<ref name=won>{{citation|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20110301235605/http://notch.tumblr.com/post/108652448/early-private-singleplayer-alpha-coming-very-soon|title=Early private singleplayer alpha coming very soon|website=The Word of Notch|date=May 16, 2009}}</ref> This phase succeeds [[pre-Classic]] and precedes [[Early Classic]]. [[Creative]] singleplayer is the only mode in the game, and there is a very limited number of blocks available, with no inventory nor even a hotbar.

== Additions ==
; [[Font]]
: Custom ''Minecraft'' font.
; Mouse
: Y-axis swapping.
; [[Cave]]s
: Added randomly generated caves.
; GUI
: In-game version number at the top left of the screen. Includes FPS (frames per second) and chunk updates.
; Building swapping
: Right-click switches between placing and destroying modes. Selecting a block now shows a white overlay on all sides of the block.

== Trivia ==
* There was no in-game version number until [[0.0.2a]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Classic}}

[[Category:Versions]]

[[es:Java Edition Classic alfa privada]]
[[it:Java Edition Classic private alpha]]
[[pt:Edição Java Classic (alpha privada)]]
[[uk:Classic private alpha (Java Edition)]]