{{for|the version of 14w27b that was mislabeled as '14w27a'|Java Edition 14w27b}}
{{Infobox version
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 14w27a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=July 2, 2014
|parent=1.8
|clienthash=7c9eac4e1b56e6a3583370d1f77111b111f986e5
|jsonhash=4e4033a046bca69c81d57555d372d2c89f5d8c33
|serverhash=b5350953ff062646d4a61b7c8fb4c0570829843a
|exehash=6e218287b6cb71fa681ebc51ba4e2f4f2d2a4e2f
|prevparent=1.7.10
|prev=14w26c
|next=14w27b
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''14w27a''' is the thirty-second [[snapshot]] released for [[Java Edition 1.8]], released on July 2, 2014,<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140708105022/https://mojang.com/2014/07/minecraft-snapshot-14w27a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w27b|date=July 2, 2014|website=Mojang.com|author=[[Dinnerbone]]}}</ref> which adds [[rabbit]]s and rabbit-related items as well as [[raw mutton|raw]] and [[cooked mutton]].

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Cooked mutton]]'''
* Restores {{hunger|6}}.

'''[[Cooked rabbit]]'''
* Restores {{hunger|5}}.

'''[[Potion of Leaping]]'''
* Applies the [[Jump Boost]] effect.
* Brewed with a [[rabbit's foot]] and an [[awkward potion]].
* The potion and bubbles are bright green colored.
** Prior to this version, the particles were lavender.

'''[[Rabbit's foot]]'''
* Used to brew potions of Leaping.
* Drops from [[rabbit]]s.

'''[[Rabbit hide]]'''
* Can be put in a 2&times;2 arrangement to receive 1 [[leather]].
* Drops from [[rabbit]]s.

'''[[Rabbit spawn egg]]'''
* Spawns [[rabbit]]s.
* Brown colored with brown spots.
* Has a random chance of spawning 3 rabbits.

'''[[Rabbit stew]]'''
* Restores {{hunger|10}}.
* Recipe: 1 [[cooked rabbit]], 1 [[mushroom]], 1 [[carrot]], 1 [[baked potato]], and 1 [[bowl]] in a shaped recipe.

'''[[Raw mutton]]'''
* Restores {{hunger|2}}.
* Drops from [[sheep]].
* Can be cooked to make [[cooked mutton]].

'''[[Raw rabbit]]'''
* Restores {{hunger|3}}.
* Can be cooked to make [[cooked rabbit]].
* Drops from [[rabbit]]s.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Rabbit]]s'''
* Have 8 skins including black, white, brown, gold, black & white, salt & pepper, Toast, and the Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog.
** Naming a rabbit spawn egg "Toast", or using a [[name tag]] with that name on a rabbit, results in a special skin as a memorial to user xyzen420's girlfriend's lost rabbit 'Toast'.<ref>{{tweet|TheMogMiner|483935152133775360|The skin only appears when you name the rabbit Toast using a name tag, it isn't in the random pool:|July 1, 2014}}</ref>
** The Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog:
*** {{frac|1|1000}} chance of spawning; it is hostile and deals {{hp|5}} on Easy difficulty, {{hp|8}} on Normal and {{hp|12}} on Hard.
*** A reference to the movie [[Wikipedia:Monty Python and the Holy Grail|''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'']].<ref>{{mcnet|who-framed-killer-rabbit|Who framed the killer rabbit?|November 25, 2016|Marsh Davies}}</ref>
*** It is perfectly white except for its mouth, which has a blood red outline.
*** It can be directly spawned in with the command {{cmd|summon Rabbit ~ ~ ~ <nowiki>{RabbitType:99}</nowiki>}}.
* Can be tamed/bred using [[carrot]]s, [[golden carrot]]s or [[dandelion]]s.
** Cannot be bred unless tamed.
* Are scared of the player and run away from it when untamed, similarly to [[ocelot]]s.

=== Command format ===
'''[[NBT format]]'''
* New <code>{CommandStats:}</code> tag for [[command block]]s and [[sign]]s.
** Allows a [[command block]] or [[sign]] to increase a certain score in the [[scoreboard]] when it runs successfully.
*** The command increases the score based on the number of items/blocks/entities/successes.
*** For example, a command block with this tag running a command which affects items (e.g. {{cmd|give}}) causes it to update the score based on the number of items given.
** Usage: <code>{CommandStats:{AffectedItemsName:"playername", AffectedItemsObjective:"objective", AffectedBlocksName:"playername", AffectedBlocksObjective:"objective", AffectedEntitiesName:"playername", AffectedEntitiesObjective:"objective", SuccessCountName:"playername", SuccessCountObjective:"objective"}}</code>.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
''' [[Cake]]s '''
* Now have 7 slices instead of 6.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Debug mode]] world type'''
* Tweaked world creation.
** Other world options are not available.
** Only [[Spectator]] mode can be enabled.
* Now includes all block states rather than all data values.
** This includes all possible states of [[redstone]] wire, [[fire]], [[tripwire]], [[stairs]], etc.
* Arrangement of blocks is very different and a lot smaller, every block state only generates once.

'''[[Nether fortress]]es'''
* They are now affected by the "generated structures" option.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Particles]]'''
* Changed the particle effect when landing on a block, looks a lot more scattered.

'''[[Effect]]s'''
* Changed the effect color of [[Jump Boost]] from {{color|#786297}} to {{color|#22FF4C}}.

=== General ===
'''[[Block models]]'''
* Replaced block state names with the actual block state data, separated by commas.

'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* Now shows variant states after the item (e.g. <code>minecraft:cauldron[level=1]</code>).

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=14w27a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|15202|Player can be pushed around by mobs while on horseback.
|16387|Nether fortresses are ignoring "Generate Structure" setting at world creation.
|26987|Horse tries to breed with another horse that is not yet in Love mode.
|29558|Double plants cannot be broken by placing a different block on the block it occupies.
|29803|Statistics doesn't resize/buttons missing after resize.
|30002|Falling/landing particles/particles applied to the player centered on the block rather than the player.
|36489|Mooshrooms lose their name (from name tag) when sheared.
|37416|when the disc is put in jukebox the name does not appear.
|;dev
|58935|Breaking dirt & coarse dirt has podzol particles.
|59146|Dirt in achievement background has podzol texture.
|59250|Enderman picking up dirt turns into podzol.
|59402|Fences and iron bars show "false"/redstone shows "up" in all cardinal directions regardless if other blocks connected or not.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 14w27a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:14w27a]]
[[es:Java Edition 14w27a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 14w27a]]
[[it:Java Edition 14w27a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 14w27a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 14w27a]]
[[ru:14w27a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版14w27a]]