{{Infobox version
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 14w30a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=July 23, 2014
|parent=1.8
|clienthash=e335e50b527fe15c82242a0a8ce8ad4e5fdcf513
|jsonhash=8d57966d0f23a9f97af540709f1b51bd8d02b21d
|serverhash=cb7bd4bebcb40c128a571c8f15fe1990b1f50a32
|exehash=b9912d88d068bb60df5b1b37f7ee75118e83a042
|prevparent=1.7.10
|prev=14w29b
|next=14w30b
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''14w30a''' is the thirty-eighth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.8]], released on July 23, 2014,<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140727061744/https://mojang.com/2014/07/minecraft-snapshot-14w30a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w30c|date=July 23, 2014|website=Mojang.com|author=[[Dinnerbone]]}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|491937730931093505|Here's a minecraft snapshot, hot and fresh from the oven!|July 23, 2014}}</ref> which adds [[banner]]s.

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Banner]]s'''
* Over 16&times;400<sup>6</sup> possible combinations &ndash; 6.5536&times;10<sup>16</sup>.
* Crafted like a sign, just with one color of wool instead of planks.
* Can be stacked to 16.
* Most patterns are created by arranging dyes in certain ways around a banner on a crafting table.
** The dyes cannot be shifted or flipped even if there is space, known as a fixed recipe.
* Additional patterns: creeper, skull & crossbones, brick, and flower - making these without dyes results in a black pattern, one can use dyes to get different colors (items: creeper skull, wither skeleton skull, brick block, oxeye daisy).
* 33 crafting recipes which produce different patterns.
* Up to 6 layers of patterns possible.
* Can be placed on walls or on the ground (16 rotations possible).
* Sway as if blown by wind.
* Can be cloned by crafting them together with a blank banner.
* Can be worn as headgear (but only using commands).
* Top-most layer can be removed using cauldrons.

=== Command format ===
'''[[NBT format]]'''
* New <code>Silent</code> tag for entities.
** Setting to 1 disables sound produced by that entity, such as idle and hurt sounds.

=== General ===
'''[[Statistics]]'''
* <code>stat.talkedToVillager</code>
** Detects how many times the player has talked to villagers (opened the trading GUI).
* <code>stat.tradedWithVillager</code>
** Detects how many times the player has traded with villagers.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Mob head]]s'''
* Made creeper, skeleton and zombie heads available in Survival.
* Creepers, skeletons, wither skeletons, and zombies drop their heads when killed by charged creepers. Wither skeletons continue to have heads as [[rare drops]].
* Skulls worn on heads are now bigger so the second skin layer no longer peeks through.
* Player and mob heads in inventories and held by mobs/players now display the actual head.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|summon}}'''
* {{cmd|summon}} command can now summon lightning using {{cmd|summon LightningBolt}}.

=== Gameplay ===
'''Lighting'''
* Completely fixed black spots.
* Players need to reload old worlds for them to be fixed.<ref>{{tweet|SeargeDP|491938604827295744|Black shadow patches are not automatically fixed in existing worlds, but should not show up anymore on new worlds and chunks.|July 23, 2014}}</ref>

=== World generation ===
'''[[Nether fortress]]'''
* Chests now have the possiblity of containing obsidian.

=== General ===
'''F3 [[debug screen]]'''
* Now displays how many chunk sections are being rendered currently and how many chunk sections are out of view in percent, the [[wikipedia:OpenGL|OpenGL]] version, display size, vendor and GPU.
* "Vanilla" added to the version number. e.g., "Minecraft 14w30b (14w30b/Vanilla)".
** Presumably this says something different if modded.{{more info}}
* {{key|F3+H}} tooltips now show how many NBT tags an item has.
* Block names no longer contain blockstate data in brackets next to their name (in the view of a block's name and data along the right side of the screen).
* Data is still shown in separate rows beneath the name.
'''Animations'''
* Third person sword [[blocking]] position slightly tweaked
* Block hitting animation redone
* Punching while blocking, shooting an arrow, drinking a potion, and eating removed
* Rod scaling tweaked
* Removed armor turning red when hit
* Items are now positioned a little higher and further left during their eating/drinking animation in first person view<ref>{{bug|MC-273056}}</ref>

'''Video settings'''
* Render distance slider now goes up to 32 when using 64-bit Java.
** Requires 2 GB of allocated RAM.
* Removed Advanced OpenGL.

'''Performance improvements'''
* Rewrote chunk sorting.
* Ported over the visibility culling code from MCPE to avoid rendering invisible stuff.
* Threaded chunk rebuilds.

== Bugs ==
'''[[Java Edition distance effects/Historical effects|Distance effects]]'''
* Chunks detach and jitter at high coordinates if VBOs are disabled.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=14w30a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|7508|Lighting error due to <code>Chunk.heightMap</code> ignoring block at the top level of an <code>ExtendedBlockStorage</code> instance (off by 1 error).
|30568|{{cmd|summon}} command can't summon lightning.
|32514|The well in a desert village is made out of the wrong material/cobblestone.
|58823|<code>options.txt</code> has <code>advancedOpengl:true</code> also for graphic cards without Advanced OpenGL in video settings.
|;dev
|46225|Falling sand can replace pistons, destroying them.
|56897|Chunks don't render.
|57895|Stairs are backwards in the creative inventory and hotbar.
|58790|Sign with {{cmd|give}} / {{cmd|replaceitem}} doesn't update player inventory.
|59259|Breaking block below tall plants causes them to drop two items.
|59979|Bug in the {{key|F3}} menu.
|60301|Broken resource packs: game crashes when I try to load 14w27a/b.
|60552|Flower pots with metadata placed in 1.7 will not render in 1.8 snapshots/metadata not removed.
|61191|Sandstone stairs bug in desert villages.
|62127|Turning off VSync crashes the game.
|62138|"#PLAYER" appears on sidebar.
|62180|{{cmd|testfor @p}} doesn't consider x, y, z anymore.
|62493|"{{cmd|worldborder get}}" can display invalid size using "{{cmd|worldborder add}}".
|62655|Cubic player selector always finds player if there are more than 31 entities around.
|;prev
|62170|Carpet has incorrect height.
|62223|Crash in Video Settings menu.
|62240|Command selector parameters <code>dx</code>, <code>dy</code> and <code>dz</code> don't work.
|62267|Game crashes when trying to enable VSync.
|62342|Slabs can not be placed in adventure mode with tag <code>CanPlaceOn</code>.
|62349|<code>Hopper: java.lang.NullPointerException: Saving entity NBT</code>.
|62379|Spawners (dungeons, strongholds, etc...) can spawn mobs outside of worldborder.
|62419|<code><nowiki>Hopper: java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Cannot get property bcy{name{{=}}half, clazz=class ats, values{{=}}[upper, lower]} as it does not exist in bch{block=minec</nowiki></code>.
|62499|{{cmd|replaceitem block}} has incorrect syntax.
|62504|{{cmd|kill}} adds 214748364 / 0xCCCCCCC to "Damage Taken" statistics.
|62507|Overlapping dungeons don't spawn correctly.
|62558|Rendering empty chunks/cubes in 14w29b (or number of rendered chunks on debug screen (C) is wrong).
|62736|{{cmd|ReplaceItem}} command not updated when the command was executed with a sign.
|62789|Chunks containing paintings may be wiped and regenerated upon load.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 14w30a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:14w30a]]
[[es:Java Edition 14w30a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 14w30a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 14w30a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 14w30a]]
[[ru:14w30a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版14w30a]]