{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.18 experimental snapshot 6
|image=1.18 Experimental Snapshot 1 banner.jpg
|image2=1.18 experimental snapshot 6 reddit.png
|image3=Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 6 menu.png
|edition=Java
|type=Experimental snapshot
|date=September 1, 2021
|jsondl={{dl|4697c84c6a347d0b8766759d5b00bc5a00b1b858|custom|name=1_18_experimental-snapshot-6.zip|title=.json}}{{fn|Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.}}
|clienthash=ba87774ed853139ce670ba836d038c4ae39316cc
|clientmap=13a8a8b0385c24336d5e01fd8debb569281222bb
|serverhash=a730789b6b7afa5217bf2ec66057985e62b5c2b0
|servermap=299e2896d7f27360823fd089eda151cb7bc48a63
|parent=1.18
|prevparent=1.17.1
|prev=1.18 experimental snapshot 5
|next=1.18 experimental snapshot 7
|nextparent=1.18.1
}}
<onlyinclude>
'''1.18 experimental snapshot 6''' is the sixth experimental snapshot for [[Java Edition 1.18]], released on September 1, 2021,<ref>{{Mcnet|new-world-generation-java-available-testing|New world generation in Java available for testing|September 1, 2021|Henrik Kniberg}}</ref><ref>{{reddit|pfui87/minecraft_118_experimental_snapshot_6_is_out||Minecraft 1.18 experimental snapshot 6 is out!|MrHenrik2|September 1, 2021}}</ref> which introduces changes to terrain generation and tweaks biome placement.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Horse]]s, [[mule]]s, and [[donkey]]s'''
* Now follow players holding [[golden carrot]]s, [[golden apple]]s, and [[enchanted golden apple]]s.

'''[[Llama]]s'''
* Now follow players holding [[hay bale]]s.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Aquifer]]s'''
* Aquifers under [[ocean]]s or [[river]]s are more likely to link to the underground.
** More likely to find [[cave]] openings on ocean floors that actually lead somewhere instead of being cut off.
** Caves at Y=0 to Y=40 which under oceans are more likely to be flooded.

'''[[Giant tree taiga]] and [[giant spruce taiga]]'''
* No longer considered as cold climates.
** Decreased the chance of mixed in with snowy biomes, caused a small reshuffle of other biomes to maintain the overall balance.

'''[[Grove]] and [[snowy slopes]]'''
* Decreased the chance of generating on mountain peaks.
* Altered generation so that they tend to spawn farther away from contrasting temperatures.

'''[[Spring]]s'''
* Slightly reduced the number of water springs.

'''[[Swamp]]s'''
* Now generate in dry areas.
* Decreased the chance of being fragmented.

'''[[Canyon]]s'''
* Underwater variants readded.
** No longer use a specific carver for underwater canyons. Instead, they generate on ocean floors, using normal noise caves and carvers.
** Now have more natural variation.

'''General'''
* Decreased the chance of generating cold microbiomes.
* Slightly increased the number of underwater [[magma block]]s, to increase the chance of finding air when diving in aquifers.
* Cave carvers can now carve through [[sand]] and [[gravel]] on ocean floors.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed decreased generation rate of [[lush caves]].</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
Video made by [[slicedlime]]:
{{yt|ve-m_vp07mA}}
Video made by [[Henrik Kniberg]] on the [[Java Edition 1.18/gameplay-tweaks @ 8f847b11fb2|development version]] for this snapshot:
{{yt|TycBrFKEteU}}

== Issues ==
This version is not supported on the bug tracker, and therefore issues affecting it will be resolved as "Invalid".<ref>{{bug|MC-231984}}</ref>

== Notes ==
{{Fnlist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.18-es6]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 6]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.18 experimental snapshot 6]]
[[it:Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 6]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.18 experimental snapshot 6]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.18 experimental snapshot 6]]
[[ru:1.18 experimental snapshot 6 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 1.18 experimental snapshot 6]]
[[zh:Java版1.18-exp6]]