{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft Combat Test 5
|image=Release Combat Test 5.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=Combat Tests
|date=January 16, 2020
|clienthash=0ad80b317873e1f64a9a79af09a02ddef62ce67c
|jsondl=[https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/52263d42a626b40c947e523128f7a195ec5af76a/1_15_combat-6.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
|clientmap=5c9745ba8db67bcc95e6de65a3a6dd1d4c655726
|serverhash=0cc9a1582949297c8f1ca83b937c8d84ad295ffe
|servermap=44b2ca1d4677f3fffaa0333c87a42a9449e0bc52
|prevparent=
|prev=Combat Test 4
|next=Combat Test 6
|nextparent=
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 5''' is the fifth experimental version of a future combat revision.<ref>{{reddit|epy4hv||Experimental Combat Snapshot - version 5|jeb_|January 16, 2020}}</ref><ref>{{Mcnet|experimental-java-edition-combat-snapshot-v5|Experimental Combat Snapshot v5|January 16, 2020}}</ref> Although it is a development version for a future release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.15.2 Pre-release 1|1.15.2 Pre-release 1]]. This version was released on {{w|Reddit}} and [[Minecraft.net]], but it does not appear in the [[launcher]]. This is the first combat test released in 2020.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Combat]]'''
* Added a "Coyote Time" that activates for {{convert|6|ticks|seconds}} after a player aims at something, but attacks outside its bounding box.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Tool]]s and [[weapon]]s'''
* Lowered the attack damage of most tools and weapons, as shown in the following table:
{| class="wikitable" style="margin-left:2em;"
! rowspan=2 | Tool
! colspan=2 | Axe
! colspan=2 | Pickaxe
! colspan=2 | Shovel
! colspan=2 | Sword
|-
! Before !! After
! Before !! After
! Before !! After
! Before !! After
|-
! Wood
| {{hp|6}} || {{hp|5}}
| {{hp|3}} || {{hp|3}}
| {{hp|2}} || {{hp|2}}
| {{hp|5}} || {{hp|4}}
|-
! Gold
| {{hp|6}} || {{hp|5}}
| {{hp|3}} || {{hp|3}}
| {{hp|2}} || {{hp|2}}
| {{hp|5}} || {{hp|4}}
|-
! Stone
| {{hp|7}} || {{hp|5}}
| {{hp|4}} || {{hp|3}}
| {{hp|3}} || {{hp|2}}
| {{hp|6}} || {{hp|4}}
|-
! Iron
| {{hp|8}} || {{hp|6}}
| {{hp|5}} || {{hp|4}}
| {{hp|4}} || {{hp|3}}
| {{hp|7}} || {{hp|5}}
|-
! Diamond
| {{hp|9}} || {{hp|7}}
| {{hp|6}} || {{hp|5}}
| {{hp|5}} || {{hp|4}}
| {{hp|8}} || {{hp|6}}
|}

'''[[Trident]]s'''
* Now have an attack damage of {{hp|7}}, instead of {{hp|8}}.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''Thrown [[egg]]s'''
* Now have a 4-tick cooldown.

=== Gameplay ===
'''Attacking'''
* Increased the attack damage of unarmed attacks from {{hp|1}} to {{hp|2}}.<ref group=note>This change was made before ''Bedrock Edition'''s unarmed attack damage was lowered from {{hp|2}} to {{hp|1}} in [[1.18.30]], which cited parity with ''Java Edition'' as a reason.</ref>
* Changed the swing animation to emphasize the rhythm of the attacks.{{info needed}}

'''[[Hunger]]'''
* Saturation is no longer capped by the hunger level of the player. <ref name=u group=note>This change was made in Combat Test 5, however went unmentioned in the changelogs.</ref>
* Upon eating food, the player's saturation is always set to the food's provided saturation amount unless their current saturation level exceeds what is obtainable from the food. <ref name=u group=note />
* [[Saturation boost]] has been removed.
* Changed food [[consumption time]] from {{convert|32|ticks|seconds}} to {{convert|40|ticks|seconds}}.
* The player now naturally regenerates health when above a hunger level of {{hunger|7|total=20}} instead of {{hunger|18|total=2}}.
* The player now naturally heals every {{convert|60|ticks|seconds}} instead of every {{convert|80|ticks|seconds}}.
* The player now takes damage from starvation every {{convert|60|ticks|seconds}} instead of every {{convert|80|ticks|seconds}} when the hunger bar is empty.
* Natural healing now always drains food points.
** Saturation is not used when healing damage, and is only relevant to other actions that drain the hunger bar.
* The player can now [[sprint]] at any hunger value.

'''[[Damage#Knockback|Knockback]]'''
* Reintroduced upwards knockback when hitting players in the air.
* Players now get knockback from hits that deal less than half a heart of damage, including no damage.
</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|E2Cwlz5O370}}

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[de:Combat Test 5]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 5]]
[[fr:Édition Java Test de combat 5]]
[[ja:Java Edition Combat Test 5]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 5]]
[[ru:Combat Test 5 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java Combat Test 5]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 5]]