{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.18.1
|image=1.18.1 banner.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 1.18.1.png
|edition=Java
|date=December 10, 2021
|jsonhash=b0bdc637e4c4cbf0501500cbaad5a757b04848ed
|clienthash=7e46fb47609401970e2818989fa584fd467cd036
|clientmap=99ade839eacf69b8bed88c91bd70ca660aee47bb
|serverhash=125e5adf40c659fd3bce3e66e67a16bb49ecc1b9
|servermap=9717df2acd926bd4a9a7b2ce5f981bb7e4f7f04a
|prevparent=1.18
|prev=
|next=1.18.2
|nextparent=1.19
}}

'''1.18.1''' is a minor update to {{JE}}, released on December 10, 2021, which makes minor changes related to fog and fixes bugs.<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-java-edition-1-18-1|Minecraft Java Edition 1.18.1|December 10, 2021}}</ref> It is compatible with [[Java Edition 1.18|1.18]] servers.

Most importantly, this version fixes a critical security vulnerability in the Log4j library of the dedicated server release that could be used to perform a remote code execution exploit. As a result, players were urged to secure their clients and servers.<ref name="article_log4shell_vulnerability">{{Mcnet|important-message--security-vulnerability-java-edition|Important Message: Security vulnerability in Java Edition|December 10, 2021}}</ref> This is the final version released in 2021.

While this wasn’t the last update to 1.18, it was the last before the development versions of [[Java Edition 1.19|1.19]] started.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Fog]]'''
* World fog now starts farther away from the player, to make distant terrain more visible.
* Instead of applying fog as a spherical volume, it is now applied as a cylindrical volume.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.18.1,1.18.1 Release Candidate 3,1.18.1 Release Candidate 2,1.18.1 Release Candidate 1,1.18.1 Pre-release 1|otherissuescount=2
|;From released versions before 1.18
|152198|Actual render distance is 2 chunks lower than render distance setting.
|219507|Beacon's power reverts back to previous one on world reload.
|;From 1.18
|242729|Observer activating without any updates nearby, caused by {{cmd|clone}}.
|243216|Chunk render distance on servers seems shorter than in 1.17.1.
|243253|Minecraft Realms screen is loading for long time.
|243796|Random non fatal exceptions in console: <code>Failed to store chunk ConcurrentModificationException</code>.
}}
'''Other'''
* Fixed an issue that would cause players on low-bandwidth connections to get timeout errors when connecting to a server. <ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-18-1-pre-release-1|Minecraft 1.18.1 Pre-Release 1|December 3, 2021}}</ref>
* Fixed a critical security issue in which attackers are able to execute code on others' devices (RCE exploit) via [[Chat|in-game messaging]] or other methods where the game logs a certain exploitable string, due to an upstream vulnerability in log4j2. <ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-18-1-release-candidate-1|Minecraft 1.18.1 Release Candidate 3|December 10, 2021}}</ref><ref name="article_log4shell_vulnerability"/><ref>https://help.aliyun.com/noticelist/articleid/1060971232.html</ref>

== Videos ==
{{Slicedlime|UmdH7UuJgQk}}

== Trivia ==
* This version was released exactly 2 years after [[Java Edition 1.15|1.15]].
* This version was released on the same day as [[Java Edition 1.18.1 Release Candidate 3|its final release candidate]].

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.18.1]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.18.1]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.18.1]]
[[it:Java Edition 1.18.1]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.18.1]]
[[ko:Java Edition 1.18.1]]
[[lzh:爪哇版一點一八點一]]
[[pl:Java Edition 1.18.1]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.18.1]]
[[ru:1.18.1 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java 1.18.1]]
[[uk:1.18.1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.18.1]]