{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 19w36a
|image=19w36a.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 19w36a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=September 4, 2019
|clienthash=54a359d0b47818d85c61db79ec742f7fdab5b914
|jsonhash=01cc2e7f8355299240f4674f2de1619906c21302
|serverhash=c042fd138ae280b01ce191937ca917666a15be38
|clientmap=a981dbf4095dbb2ffb078db14d676fb8f9c2fa99
|servermap=d23ba8336686cc4846b5b2bd8dae164084e47a61
|parent=1.15
|prevparent=1.14.4
|prev=19w35a
|next=19w37a
|nextparent=1.15.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''19w36a''' is the third [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.15]], released on September 4, 2019,<ref name="19w36a">{{snap|19w36a|September 4, 2019}}</ref> which adds many features originally from {{BE}}.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''[[Gamerule]]s'''
* <code>doInsomnia</code>
** Whether [[phantom]]s can spawn in the [[nighttime]].
* <code>doImmediateRespawn</code>
** [[Player]]s respawn immediately without showing the [[death screen]].
* <code>drowningDamage</code>
** Whether the player should take damage when [[drowning]].
* <code>fallDamage</code>
** Whether the player should take [[fall damage]].
* <code>fireDamage</code>
** Whether the player should take [[fire damage]].

=== General ===
'''[[Tag]]s'''
* Added <code>minecraft:beehive_inhabitors</code> entity [[tag]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Bed]]s'''
* Trying to [[sleep]] in a bed during the [[daytime]] now sets the [[player]]'s spawn location to that bed.

'''[[Bee hive]]s'''
* When instantly {{ctrl|mined}} in [[Creative]] mode, they drop as an item.

'''[[Bell]]s'''
* Now ring if powered with a redstone signal.

'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* [[Firework rocket]]s dispensed from a dispenser now travel in the direction they were fired.

'''[[Wet sponge]]s'''
* Now dry out when {{ctrl|placed}} in [[the Nether]].

=== Items ===
'''[[Honey bottle]]s'''
* Now restore 1.2 [[saturation]] instead of 9.6.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Bee]]s'''
* Are now affected by the [[Bane of Arthropods]] enchantment.
* Changed [[texture]]s of nectar-covered bees to have consistent amounts of [[honey]].

=== General ===
'''[[Mod]]ding'''
* [[Obfuscation map]]s are now published with all future versions of the game, including this one.
** Does not change the existing restrictions on what may or may not be done with game code or assets.
** Links to the obfuscation mappings are included in the [[client.json|version's accompanying <samp>.json</samp> file]].

'''[[Chunk format]]'''
* [[Biome]] information now is stored in sixty-four 4×4 arrays, allowing biomes to be changed based on height; previously, biome values corresponded to only the X and Z coordinates.
** The {{nbt|int array|Biomes}} array in the {{nbt|compound|Level}} tag for each chunk now contains 1024 integers instead of 256. Each number in the array is the biome for a 4x4x4 volume in the chunk. These 4×4×4 volumes are arranged by Z, then X, then Y. That is, the first 4×4 values in the array are for the 16×16 chunk, at Y-levels 0–3, the next 4×4 is for Y-levels 4–7, etc.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=19w36a
|;old
|117914|Entities crossing dimensions through nether portal causes tremendous lag.
|158677|Ender dragon freezes the server if there is no end stone in the end.
|158978|"Create New World" button in the world creation menu is enabled after returning from the world customize menu, allowing world names to be left blank.
|;dev
|159359|Dispensers ignore honey level when collecting honey from hives/nests.
|159370|Bees suffocate when against a solid block ceiling.
|159383|Copying a bee nest/hive with NBT duplicates the bees inside of it as well, causing multiple bees with the same UUID to exist in the same world at the same time.
|159385|Bees are not affected by Bane of Arthropods enchantment.
|159395|Honey level of bee hives does not increase, as opposed to bee nests.
|159424|Hostile bees will not sting the player if they have a flower in their hand.
|159441|Bees stay leashed when leaving a bee hive, despite having dropped their lead when entering it, thus duplicating the lead.
|159515|Bees do not sleep at night.
|159518|Bees stop their animations when standing still, even when still in the air.
|159558|Bees attempt to sting the player even after they have already stung the player.
|159560|Semi-transparent pixels on bee textures.
|159584|When a bee nest/hive with a bee inside is destroyed on creative, the bees inside disappear.
|159743|Bee textures have inconsistent amounts of nectar.
|159880|Bee duplicate passenger entities when entering and leaving hives.
|160008|Drinking honey bottles does not immediately make a sound.
|;previous
|160254|Bees do not pollinate lilacs, rose bushes or peonies.
|;private
|140507|Overloading a chunk with data will cause it to revert to its old state.<ref name="19w36a"/>
|159419|Custom beehive item can be used to spawn any entity, including command blocks.<ref name="19w36a"/>
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|oZtn6bKgluc}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[cs:19w36a]]
[[de:19w36a]]
[[es:Java Edition 19w36a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 19w36a]]
[[it:Java Edition 19w36a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 19w36a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 19w36a]]
[[ru:19w36a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版19w36a]]