{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.16 Release Candidate 1
|image=1.16 Release Candidate 1.jpg
|image2=Java Edition 1.16 Release Candidate 1.png
|edition=Java
|type=Release candidate
|date=June 18, 2020
|clienthash=a056316b66aea50c0555d5f438cf839b6cdde000
|jsonhash=9d88620e42c57242811c588681df9eddca06aab0
|jsonfile=1.16-rc1
|serverhash=7213e5ba8fe8d352141cf3dde907c26c43480092
|clientmap=c68f223b19fd1be84ba2f7b55546c7cbf64e5078
|servermap=c3d6c25f90fc1cfa535925d2fe6ae0722c3fed58
|parent=1.16
|prevparent=1.15.2
|prev=1.16 Pre-release 8
|nextparent=1.16.1
|next=
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.16 Release Candidate 1''' (known as '''1.16-rc1''' in the [[launcher]]) is the first and only release candidate for [[Java Edition 1.16]], released on June 18, 2020,<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-16-release-candidate|Minecraft 1.16 Release Candidate 1|June 18, 2020}}</ref> which modifies [[splash]] texts and fixes bugs. This is the first ever release candidate released in 2020 since [[Java Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]].

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Splashes]]'''
* The COVID-19 pandemic set of splash texts have been added to the normal set of splashes.
* Added new splashes:
** This parrot is no more! It has ceased to be!
** Honey, I grew the bees!
** Find your claw!
** Everybody do the Leif!
** <3 Max & 99 & Ducky!
** Bushy eyebrows!
** Edit is a name!
** From free range developers!
** Music by [[Lena Raine]]!
** Aww man!
** #minecraftfarms
** And my pickaxe!
** Envision! Create! Share!
** [[Options|Fabulous graphics]]!
** Also try [[Minecraft Dungeons]]!
** Vanilla!
** May contain traces of citrus!
** [[Zoglin]]!?

== Changes ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[The Nether]]'''
* Fixed issues with the Nether surface generation, which caused issues like floating [[lava]] and [[crimson forest]]s without [[nylium]].{{checkthecode|What changes were made? Code digging required.}}

'''Optimizing worlds'''
* The progress bar when optimizing worlds are now color-coded according to the type of [[dimension]], and the ratio is calculated according to the number of chunks to optimize for each.
** Green for the [[Overworld]], brown for [[the Nether]], and light orange for [[the End]].
** This applies to [[custom dimension]]s as well.

=== General ===
'''[[Splashes]]'''
* The COVID-19 pandemic set of splashes no longer overwrite the normal ones.
* Removed some splashes:
** Undocumented!
** Down with O.P.P.!
** Lewd with two dudes with food!
** Switches and ores!
** Huge tracts of land!
** Totally forgot about Dre!
** Popping tags!
** Getting ready to show!
** Getting ready to know!
** Getting ready to drop!
** Getting ready to shock!
** Getting ready to freak!
** Getting ready to speak!

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|fixedin=1.16 Release Candidate 1
|;old
|59540|Creating superflat world without layers causes to get "Classic Flat".
|86197|Shield blocking happens even while eating.
|88901|Blocking with Shield, and getting hit causes visual bug.
|109121|2×2 jungle and spruce trees do not grow from the lowest layer.
|117312|Hover and click events are at wrong position for right-to-left languages.
|135333|Open fence gates still block players in water.
|150543|Using a stonecutter can sometimes crash the game in certain circumstances.
|152934|Water and lava disappear when dispensed through a dispenser at build limit.
|164224|Non updated lava layers that rarely generate in Nether wastes, crimson forests, and warped forests.
|164569|Random "Block Broken" in jungle.
|166921|Incorrect bow animation when eating.
|166959|Cannot trade with villager after clicking on them while holding a written book.
|174790|Mob on turtle eggs causes the game to crash.
|175634|Fishing line disconnects while drinking.
|;dev
|181833|Crash on world startup after playing world in 20w18a.
|187423|Ender pearls sometimes won't work with end gateways.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|fl_q7KUCMIg}}

== Trivia ==
* The splash "This parrot is no more! It has ceased to be!" is a reference to ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' [[wikipedia:Dead Parrot sketch|"Dead Parrot Sketch"]].
* The splash "Honey, I grew the bees!" is a reference to the 1989 film [[wikipedia:Honey, I Shrunk the Kids|''Honey, I Shrunk the Kids'']] as well as the size of the [[bee]] mob added in [[Java Edition 1.15|1.15]].
* The splash "From free range developers!" is a reference to the "From free-range hens" phrase seen on egg boxes.
* The splash "Music by Lena Raine!" is a reference to the new music tracks added in 1.16, made by [[Lena Raine]].
* The splash "Aww man!" is a reference to the "Creeper, aww man" meme, originating from [[CaptainSparklez]]' Minecraft parody song, ''Revenge''.<ref>{{ytl|cPJUBQd-PNM|"Revenge" - A Minecraft Parody of Usher's DJ Got Us Fallin' In Love (Music Video)|CaptainSparklez|August 19, 2011}}</ref>
* The splash "#minecraftfarms" is a hashtag [[Felix Jones]] wanted to get trending.<ref>{{tweet|Xilefian|1270028640340914178|#minecraftfarms|8 Jun 2020}}; {{tweet|Xilefian|1270032089342259202|just trying to get the hashtag trending|8 Jun 2020}}.</ref>
* 1.16 Release Candidate 1 was released exactly 10 years after [[Java Edition Infdev 20100618|Infdev 20100618]].
* This is the first release candidate available in the [[launcher]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.16-rc1]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.16 Release Candidate 1]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.16 Release Candidate 1]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.16 Release Candidate 1]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.16 Release Candidate 1]]
[[ru:1.16 Release Candidate 1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.16-rc1]]