{{for|different versions of 0.31|0.31}}
{{Infobox development phase
|title=Indev 0.31
|image=In-202.png
|startver=[[Java Edition Indev 0.31 20091223-0040|December 23, 2009]]
|latestver=[[Java Edition Indev 0.31 20100206-1437|February 6, 2010]]
|paid = Yes (€10.00) when originally released<br>No, if played through the launcher
|prevparent=Java Edition Classic
|prev=Late Classic Creative
|next=Minecraft Indev
|nextparent=Java Edition Infdev
}}
{{relevant guide|Java Edition guides/Indev 0.31 releases}}

'''Indev 0.31''' refers to 34 different versions of '''[[Indev]]''' released between [[Java Edition Indev 0.31 20091223-0040|December 23, 2009]], and [[Java Edition Indev 0.31 20100206-1437|February 6, 2010]], all of which shared the same version number of '''0.31''' in-game.

These updates re-introduced [[Survival]] mode and added [[crafting]], along with new blocks and items such as [[diamond ore]] and iron [[tool]]s. It also expanded on world generation options with different level types and themes.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Torch
|Fire
|Water Spawner
|Lava Spawner
|Chest
|Diamond Ore
|Block of Diamond
|Gear
|Crafting Table
|Leather Cap
|Leather Tunic
|Leather Pants
|Leather Boots
|Studded Helmet
|Studded Chestplate
|Studded Leggings
|Studded Boots
|Chainmail Helmet
|Chainmail Chestplate
|Chainmail Leggings
|Chainmail Boots
|Iron Helmet
|Iron Chestplate
|Iron Leggings
|Iron Boots
|Quiver
|Apple
|Iron Shovel
|Iron Sword
|Flint and Steel
|Iron Axe
|Iron Pickaxe
|Bow
|Coal
|Diamond
|Gold Ingot
|Iron Ingot
|Wooden Sword
|Wooden Axe
|Wooden Pickaxe
|Wooden Shovel
|Stone Sword
|Stone Axe
|Stone Pickaxe
|Stone Shovel
|Diamond Sword
|Diamond Axe
|Diamond Pickaxe
|Diamond Shovel
|Stick
|Golden Sword
|Golden Axe
|Golden Pickaxe
|Golden Shovel
|Bowl
|Mushroom Stew
|Gunpowder
|String
|Feather
}}

=== General ===
'''General'''
* [[Title screen]]
* Dynamic lighting
* [[Survival]] mode
* [[Crafting]]
* [[Smelting]]
** Done via throwing the item into [[fire]] or [[lava]].<!-- Default Control at the time? -->
* [[Difficulty]] settings
** Peaceful, easy, normal, and hard.

'''Options '''
* Isometric level rendering screenshot option.
* Fullscreen mode accessible via {{key|F11}}.
* Ability to drop the whole stack of items instead of one at a time.
* Right clicking deposits a single item from a hovering stack.
* The player now needs a pickaxe to mine stone.

'''Particles'''
* Show when harvesting blocks and from fire and lava as well as from torches.

'''Sounds'''
* Sound engine

=== Blocks ===
* [[Fire]]
* [[Torch]]
* [[Chest]]
* [[Gear]]
* [[Diamond ore]]
** Originally named "emerald ore".
* [[Block of diamond]]
** Originally named "emerald block".
* [[Crafting table]]
** Originally named "workbench".
* Infinite [[water]]
** Always drains from highest remove location.

=== Items ===
* [[Apple]]
* [[Flint and steel]]
** Places [[fire]].
* [[Diamond]]
** Originally named "emerald".
* [[Iron ingot]]
* [[Gold ingot]]
* Iron, diamond and golden [[shovel]]s.
** Used to gather types of dirt or sand four times faster than by hand.
* Iron, diamond and golden [[pickaxe]]s.
** Used to gather types of stone four times faster than by hand.
* Iron, diamond and golden [[axe]]s.
** Used to gather wood four times faster than by hand.
* Iron, diamond and golden [[sword]]s.
* Cloth, [[Studded_armor|studded]], chain and iron [[armor]].
* [[Stick]]
* [[Bowl]]
* [[Gunpowder|Sulphur]]
* [[Feather]]
* [[String]]
* [[Mushroom stew]]
* [[Bow]]
* [[Quiver]]
** Was never used in gameplay.

=== Mobs ===
* [[Giant]]
* [[Rana]], [[Beast Boy]], [[Steve (mob)|Steve]] and [[Black Steve]] (later removed).

=== Non-mob entities ===
* Functionless non-block items.
* Items can be dropped on the ground.
** Can then be picked back up.

=== World generation ===
* Level options
** Level type (island, floating, flat, inland).
** Level shape (square, long, deep).
** Level size (small, normal, huge).
** Level theme (normal, hell).
** Liquid spawner.
* Fluids can spawn above sea level and on floating islands.
* [[Starting house]]

== Changes ==
=== General ===
* Explosions lose power when going through stronger materials.

=== Blocks ===
* Leaves now produce shadows.
* Grass can now grow in slightly lit areas.
* Lava sets fire to flammable materials.
* Water doesn't move on surface it's on.
** Doesn't spread out over unfilled water surfaces, if it has an empty space next to it.
** Evaporates ({{frac|2|3}} probability) or copies {{frac|1|3}}).

=== Mobs ===
* Mobs now avoid taking damage from cliffs, fire, etc.
* Passive mobs now only spawn in bright areas.
* Hostile mobs now only spawn in dark areas.

=== Non-mob entities ===
* All items and mobs can catch fire.

=== World generation ===
* Oceans have [[Water#Source blocks|infinite water]].

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Indev}}

[[Category:Java Edition versions]]

[[es:Java Edition Indev 0.31]]
[[pt:Edição Java Indev 0.31]]
[[ru:Indev 0.31 (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Indev 0.31 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Indev 0.31]]