{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft Combat Test 3
|image=Release Combat Test 3.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|parent=Combat Tests
|compiled=October 31, 2019
|date=November 1, 2019
|clienthash=fd8f2712d8d5089f4f0ee817a6f6fbe7f9d4c6f1
|jsondl=[https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/0f209c9c84b81c7d4c88b4632155b9ae550beb89/1_14_combat-3.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
|serverhash=8f8ff833e6c775286a54935dad282f8499578f9a
|prevparent=
|prev=Combat Test 2
|next=Combat Test 4
|nextparent=
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 3''' is the third experimental version of a future combat update.<ref>{{reddit|dq2v7o||Updated Combat Test Snapshot (number 3) and a custom map for combat testing|jeb_|November 1, 2019}}</ref> Although it is a version for a future major release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.14.4|1.14.4]]. This version was released only on {{w|Reddit}}, so it does not appear in the [[launcher]] or in any [[Minecraft.net]] blog post.

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchantment]]s'''
* Added the [[Cleaving|Chopping]] enchantment for [[axe]]s.
** Adds 1 [[damage]] and {{convert|0.5|seconds|ticks}} of [[shield]] stunning per level.
** Maximum level is III.
** Mutually exclusive with [[Sharpness]].

'''[[Shield]]s'''
* Added a "Shield Indicator" option that displays when the shield is active, similar to the attack indicator.
** Found in video settings, the available options are "OFF", "Crosshair" or "Hotbar".
* Added an option to hide shields when active.
** Found in video settings and labeled "Shield Animation".

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Axe]]s'''
* Now always disable [[shield]]s for {{convert|1.6|seconds|ticks}}, instead of having a 25% to disable them for {{convert|5|seconds|ticks}}.
* Now only use 1 [[durability]] when attacking instead of 2.

'''[[Sword]]s'''
* Changed attack speed from 2.5 back to 3.0.
* The {{ctrl|attack}} key can again be held down to automatically attack when the attack meter is full.
** Attacks now only happen when the sword is at 120% charge, slower than if attacks were timed.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''Projectiles'''
* No longer trigger a [[mob]]'s invulnerability timer, which means that [[Multishot]] can hit and deal [[damage]] to the same mob with all three [[arrow]]s.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Knockback]]'''
* Knockback resistance is now on a scale instead of being random.

'''[[Shield]]s'''
* Arc of available protection has been decreased to 100 degrees instead of 180 degrees (i.e., attacks from outside this arc of 100&deg; aren't blocked).</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|U9k8QhEThoQ}}

== Notes ==
{{Notelist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[de:Combat Test 3]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 3]]
[[fr:Édition Java Test de combat 3]]
[[ja:Java Edition Combat Test 3]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 3]]
[[ru:Combat Test 3 (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Combat Test 3 (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java Combat Test 3]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 3]]