{{log4j vulnerability}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.9.1
|edition=Java
|image =Banner 1.9.1.png
|image2=Java Edition 1.9.1.png
|date=March 30, 2016
|clienthash=9bc7f02323d90b9385c1a5dbd47fb144a3fb8835
|jsonhash=a7c5c055718d8e7d709f3f2338b4e8f1125b5aae
|serverhash=bf95d9118d9b4b827f524c878efd275125b56181
|prevparent=1.9
|next=1.9.2
|nextparent=1.10
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.9.1'''<ref>{{tweet|SeargeDP|707609845688569857|Elytras have sounds? Well, in 1.9.1 pre-release 1 they do. Read about that (and more) at http://www.mojang.com/2016/03/minecr…|Mar 9, 2016}}</ref> is a minor update for {{JE}} released on March 30, 2016.<ref>{{link|url=https://www.mojang.com/2016/03/minecraft-191/|archive-url=http://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2016/03/minecraft-191/|title=Minecraft 1.9.1|author=Searge|website=Mojang.com|date=March 30, 2016}}</ref> 1.9.1 is not compatible with [[Java Edition 1.9|1.9]] servers. Due to a major multiplayer bug, 1.9.1 was replaced with [[Java Edition 1.9.2|1.9.2]] on the same day.

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Armor]]'''
* New armor attribute: <code>generic.armorToughness</code>, which includes a new formula for calculating damage:
*: <math>totalDamage=damage\times(1-\frac{max(\frac{defensePoints}{5},defensePoints-\frac{damage}{2+\frac{toughness}{4}})}{25})</math>
** Increased toughness means less armor defense point reduction from strong attacks.
** Diamond armor has toughness 2, all other armor has toughness 0. A full set of diamond armor, therefore gives a toughness attribute of 8.

'''[[Elytra]]'''
* Added sound effects while gliding with elytra.
** Sound event <code>item.elytra.flying</code>.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Dispensers with [[arrow]]s in [[jungle temple]]s now use loot tables.
* Increased limit per tick for scheduled tile ticks from 1,000 to 65,536.

'''[[Hopper]]s'''
* Can now push and pull items to and from [[chest]]s that are blocked from opening.

=== Items ===
'''[[Shield]]s'''
* No longer take damage when blocking weak attacks (less than {{hp|3}} damage).

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* AI has been improved.{{more info}}

'''[[Skeleton]]s'''
* Now shoot less quickly on Easy and Normal difficulties.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Minecarts with chest]] & [[minecarts with hopper]]'''
* The GUI name is now the same as the item's display name.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Target selectors]]'''
* Entity selector <code>c</code> (count) now sorts on proximity using true coordinates, not coordinates snapped to the grid.<ref>{{bug|MC-96927}} – Selector <code>c=</code> targeting inaccurate entity position</ref>

=== Gameplay ===
'''Combat'''
* Attack cooldown indicator is now enabled by default.<ref group="note">Players who already played previous 1.9 versions may still need to manually enable the crosshair option (or delete [[options.txt]] to reset the default values).</ref>

=== General ===
'''[[Loot table]]s'''
* Now work in [[dispenser]]s and [[dropper]]s.

'''Session IDs'''
* Are no longer printed by the game to the log files or to the launcher.<ref>{{bug|MCL-4420}} – Session ID is shown as "<censored>" in launcher but correctly written into log file</ref>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.9.1, 1.9.1 Pre-Release 3, 1.9.1 Pre-Release 2, 1.9.1 Pre-Release 1|prefix=Minecraft
|;From release versions older than 1.9
|7961|Hopper can't fill or empty a chest if the chest is blocked from opening.
|56162|Setting {{cmd|worldborder damage amount 0}} doesn't work.
|95352|Spatial target arguments <code>c</code>, <code>dx</code>, <code>dy</code>, <code>dz</code> behave unexpectedly and inconsistently.
|;From release version 1.9
|90257|A chain of command blocks may take more than 1 tick to traverse.
|93074|Summoned arrows can't be assigned a scoreboard value (too many arrows/spectral arrows cause command fail).
|96219|Block duplication bug with pistons (ghost blocks).
|96927|Selector <code>c{{=}}</code> targeting inaccurate entity position.
|98327|Elytra texture transparency issues.
|98461|Several languages (at least Frisian, Talossan, Ripuarian, Lojban, and LOLCAT) are not selectable, "Eesti (Eesti)" is listed as "Inglise (US)".
|98587|Command block logic sometimes fails arbitrarily.
|99060|Elytra glowing effect is always black.
|99697|Missnamed minecarts with hoppers and chests as "<code>container.minecart</code>".
|;From the 1.9.1 development versions
|99396|Players attack animation missing.
}}
'''Other fixes'''
* Fixed game engine adding non-existent entities (failed mob spawns, etc.) to its internal lists, increasing instability.<ref>"Paper patch 0078" – https://github.com/starlis/Paper/blob/b2dd99e74e91fbe5f7c28fe29faa58b7162c1aa6/Spigot-Server-Patches/0078-Optimize-Navigation-Listener.patch</ref></onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|aTwTbwFI-cY}}

== Footnotes ==
{{notelist}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:1.9.1]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.9.1]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.9.1]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.9.1]]
[[pl:1.9.1]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.9.1]]
[[ru:1.9.1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.9.1]]