{{Infobox version 
|title=15w47b
|edition=Java
|image=15w47a.png
|image2=Java Edition 15w47b.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=November 19, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=517438322f119b3bec2490aada10ec3fcd2e8774
|jsonhash=c52201eca7acd017743fb9b9a66700c729c8fe78
|serverhash=80cfe2c26ef21e10feb1458c46c244caa07ebcf1
|exehash=ec09e6643fe8e57967d92c92b1fce7cb4b12fd6b
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w47a
|next=15w47c
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w47b''' is the forty-second [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on November 19, 2015<ref>{{link|url=https://www.mojang.com/2015/11/minecraft-snapshot-15w47a/|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151120063535/https://www.mojang.com/2015/11/minecraft-snapshot-15w47a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 15w47b|author=Searge|website=Mojang.com|date=Nov 19, 2015}}</ref> to fix some issues with [[15w47a]], along with adding various new sounds.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''[[Sound]] events'''
* Added <code>entity.shulker.hurt_closed</code>.
* Removed <code>entity.guardian.thorns</code>.
* Renamed <code>entity.player.attack.parry</code> to <code>entity.player.attack.nodamage</code>.
* Added new sound assets for many sound events added in previous versions.
** New sounds for scoring a critical hit, inflicting knockback, parrying, full charged attacks, sweep attacks and little to no charge attacks.
*** Uses the <code>entity.player.attack</code> sound events: <code>crit</code>, <code>knockback</code>, <code>nodamage</code>, <code>strong</code>, <code>sweep</code> and <code>weak</code>.
** New sounds for when an attack is blocked by [[shield]]s.
*** Uses the sound event: <code>entity.shield.block</code>.
** New sounds for [[witch]] idle behavior, death, drinking a potion, throwing a potion and taking damage.
*** Uses the <code>entity.witch</code> sound events: <code>ambient</code>, <code>death</code>, <code>drink</code>, <code>throw</code> and <code>hurt</code>.
** New sounds for [[shulker]] idle behavior, death, being hit while their shell is closed, their bullet taking damage, and their bullet inflicting damage.
*** Uses the <code>entity.shulker</code> sound events: <code>ambient</code>, <code>death</code> and <code>close</code> and the <code>entity.shulker_bullet</code> sound events <code>hurt</code> and <code>hit</code>.
** New sounds for the attack of the [[killer bunny]].
*** Uses the sound event: <code>entity.rabbit.attack</code>.
** New sounds for a [[horse]] eating food given by the player.
*** Uses the sound event: <code>entity.horse.eat</code>.
** New sound for when a [[Brewing Stand|brewing]] operation is complete.
*** Uses the sound event: <code>block.brewing_stand.brew</code>.
** New sounds for when the player is dealt thorns damage from guardians and armor.
*** Uses the sound event: <code>enchant.thorns.hit</code>.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Item]] pickup'''
* When the [[player]] picks up an item, the item entity goes slightly transparent when it moves into their inventory.
** See {{bug|MC-92915}}.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]'''
* Effect duration depends on pyramid levels, 9 seconds plus 2 seconds per level (formerly a constant 9 seconds).

=== Items ===
'''[[Arrow]]s'''
* Now bounce off of Creative mode [[player]]s, whereas before they would pass straight through.

'''[[Shears]]'''
* Now lose durability when used to break any block (formerly only lost durability on [[leaves]], [[cobweb]], [[grass]], [[vines]], [[tripwire]] and [[wool]]).

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchantments]]'''
* [[Silk Touch]] can no longer be applied to [[shears]] in Survival.
** This makes [[cobweb]]s unobtainable in this snapshot.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w47b|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|8180|Silk touch Shears don't lose durability when mining grass, ice, etc.
|16834|horses don't have sounds for eating.
|62975|Using pick block on any color banner gives a black banner.
|;dev
|88908|OS X - When {{key|CMD}}+{{key|A}} in the command block GUI/chat/... player will auto strafe when exiting GUI.
|;previous
|92906|Skins, entities and block entities become transparent.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|r96qhrEsIOA}}

== Trivia ==
* 15w47b was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w47b]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w47b]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w47b]]
[[it:Java Edition 15w47b]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w47b]]
[[pt:Edição Java 15w47b]]
[[ru:15w47b (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w47b]]