{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft Combat Test 7c
| image = Java Edition Combat Test 7c.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| parent = Combat Tests
| date = August 14, 2020
| clienthash = 14991d31f1002e5cbd97e62310cba614666f876b
| jsondl = [https://piston-data.mojang.com/experiments/combat/2557b99d95588505e988886220779087d7d6b1e9/1_16_combat-3.zip .json]<ref group=note>Unzip this file in the <samp>[[.minecraft]]/versions</samp> folder.</ref>
| clientmap = 907af4fb6a7d676921f9bcb7aa80f8749bf03592
| serverhash = 53c43fdae7d2ed01bbb31a82d99e31b9348e2a4b
| servermap = 7f1369734e3e5585d44b211812274f2ad7ac160d
| prevparent = 
| prev = Combat Test 6
| next = Combat Test 8b
| nextparent = 
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Combat Test 7c''' is the seventh experimental version of a future combat revision.<ref name=":0">{{reddit|url=i9kdfh|title=Combat test snapshot version 7c|author=jeb_|date=August 14, 2020}}</ref> Although it is a development version for a future release, this combat experiment is a [[wikipedia:Fork (software development)|fork]] of [[Java Edition 1.16.2|1.16.2]]. This version was released only on {{w|Reddit}}, so it does not appear in the [[launcher]] or in any [[Minecraft.net]] blog post.

Two private testing versions of Combat Test 7c were developed: [[Combat Test 7]] and [[Combat Test 7b]], given to testers on August 12 and August 13, 2020, respectively.

== Changes ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Axe]]s'''
* Made weapon enchantments available to axes if they are applied from a book in an anvil.

'''[[Bow]]s'''
* Removed bow inaccuracy for holding too long.

'''[[Potion]]s'''
* Can now stack to 16.
** This does not apply to [[splash potion]]s and [[lingering potion]]s.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Combat]]'''
* Returned the "200% time" attacks ("charged" attacks below) and the +1 reach bonus.
** Missed attacks do not count as charged and are still fast.
** Players cannot get the reach bonus while crouching.
* Added a hard-coded single tick to the attack rate when auto-attacking, instead of being 20% slower.
* Returned sweeping to only work for charged attacks and when having the Sweeping enchantment.
* Returned base reach to 2.5 blocks.

'''[[Eating]]'''
* Removed the eating interruption for getting hit.

'''[[HUD]]'''
* Returned the attack indicator.

'''[[Shield]]s'''
* Now add a 50% knockback resistance when active.
* Are now always instant.
* Protect against 100% explosion damage.

== Fixes ==
'''From the previous development version'''
* Netherite weapons have updated stats.
* Using shields while crouching is now no longer desynchronized when attacking air.
* Players in spectator mode can no longer sweep in the air.
* Knockback attribute no longer have a random chance to completely prevent knockback.
* Fixed player speed bug for crouching vs using shield.</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|xJemL97iqAw}}

== Trivia ==
* Combat Tests 7 and 7b were secret development snapshots tested by selected members of the community ("@CodingCookey and his friends" according to jeb_'s reddit post). There are no official post about these combat tests.<ref name=":0"/><ref>{{ytl|xJemL97iqAw|What's new in Minecraft Combat Test Snapshot 7c ?|slicedlime|August 14, 2020}}</ref>

== Notes ==
{{Notelist}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|general}}

[[de:Combat Test 7c]]
[[es:Java Edition Combat Test 7c]]
[[fr:Édition Java Test de combat 7c]]
[[ja:Java Edition Combat Test 7c]]
[[pt:Edição Java Combat Test 7c]]
[[ru:Combat Test 7c (Java Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Java Combat Test 7c]]
[[zh:Java版Combat Test 7c]]