{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 1.7.6-pre1
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 1.7.6-pre1.png
|type=Pre-release
|parent=1.7.6
|clienthash=0a8b12ed910a51bf7099e2e2b3a279ec63073e5e
|jsonhash=ca0399bf77ba4598018eb81a89897b57ae2b22ab
|serverhash=121176f19f38780d0cd04bef87c1296fedb37cd0
|exehash=883b4f03233b2e92285d85a741d91e4a758d3fdd
|date=April 3, 2014
|prevparent=1.7.5
|prev=
|next=1.7.6-pre2
|nextparent=1.7.7
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.7.6-pre1''' is the first pre-release for [[Java Edition 1.7.6]], released on April 3, 2014, which adds support for username changing.<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140413133146/https://mojang.com/2014/04/minecraft-1-7-6-pre-release/|title=Minecraft 1.7.6 & name changing FAQ|date=April 3, 2014|author=Dinnerbone|website=Mojang.com}}</ref> This is the first pre-release released in 2014.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Skin]]'''
* Skins and capes are now distributed through servers.
** Skins server outages occur less frequently and have less impact.<ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|422751486708551681|Rewriting how skins/capes are distributed. Servers will download the info from us and redistribute it clients, should be much more stable!|January 13, 2014}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|422751718234148864|It basically means that skins shouldn't go down as much (if they do it won't matter as much too), and changing your skin is more instant.|January 13, 2014}}</ref>
** Skin changes no longer require client restarting, at worst re-logging updates the skin for everybody.
** Server-altered skins/capes are not possible - only signed URLs are stored server-side.
** Duplicate skins no longer need to be downloaded twice.
** Server traffic is barely affected.

'''Name changing'''
* Added support for name changing.
** The ability to actually change account names will not come until [[Java Edition 1.8|1.8]].<ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20140307083916/https://www.mojang.com/2014/03/minecraft-snapshot-14w10a/ Minecraft snapshot 14w10a]; Mojang.com - March 6, 2014</ref>

'''Options'''
* The "Server Resource Packs" option is now per-server, and has three settings: prompt, enabled, and disabled.
* The minimum setting for the FOV option is now 30 instead of 70.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.7.6-pre1|prefix=Minecraft
|;From releases before 1.7.2
|33086|Save-all causes lagspikes on larger maps.
|;From 1.7.2
|31468|Holes in bedrock and Replaced any block using Arbitrary tnt and flame bows.
|;From 1.7.4
|48826|"replace" directive in sounds.json does not work.
|;From earlier released 1.8 development versions
|47723|Broadcast settings - report to Mojang, links to previous bug reporting facility.
|;From 1.7.5
|51953|Almost instant motion sickness due to distorted rendering.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 1.7.6-pre1 is the first pre-release which uses the new naming convention, ''version''-pre''n''. Previous versions incremented the minor version number instead of the pre-release counter.
* This version was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:1.7.6-pre1]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.7.6-pre1]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.7.6-pre1]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.7.6-pre1]]
[[ko:Java Edition 1.7.6-pre1]]
[[lzh:爪哇版一點七點六之預一]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.7.6-pre1]]
[[ru:1.7.6-pre1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.7.6-pre1]]