{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft 1.19.1 Pre-release 2
| image = 22w17a.jpg
| image2 = Java Edition 1.19.1 Pre-release 2.png
| edition = Java
| type = Pre-release
| date = June 30, 2022
| jsonhash = db85749851e505a9ca3e202513ee0f976679fb15
| jsonfile = 1.19.1-pre2
| clienthash = a59deea8e776ec62beb46a5ee47580896bcc3b66
| clientmap = 44eb7965d8da919425894273b0180f71f728d6f4
| serverhash = 17354c4963fb0176ad34595927ce62e55ea3daf4
| servermap = 52d29ae61f8a54003b81a65f6f06ee7a4be8522f
| parent = 1.19.1
| prevparent = 1.19
| prev = 1.19.1 Release Candidate 1
| next = 1.19.1 Pre-release 3
| nextparent = 1.19.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.19.1 Pre-release 2''' (known as '''1.19.1-pre2''' in the launcher) is the second pre-release for [[Java Edition 1.19.1]], released on June 30, 2022,<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-19-1-pre-release-2|Minecraft 1.19.1 Pre-Release 2|June 30, 2022}}</ref> which adds chat trust status, makes changes to chat types, enforces secure profiles by default, and fixes bugs.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
'''[[Chat]]'''
* Messages that are not signed with the secure chat system, or have been tampered with by the server are now marked.
** Messages with missing or invalid signatures are marked as "Not Secure".
** Messages that are detected as modified are marked as "Modified".
* The trust status of messages are displayed with both a colored indicator and an icon.
** The colored indicator is always visible.
** The icon is only visible when the chat screen is open.
* Hovering over the icon provides more information about the trust status.
** For modified messages, the original secure text is also displayed in the tooltip.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Chat]]'''
* Chat types added to the {{cd|chat_types}} registry are now only used for player chat, and not system messages.
** The {{cd|system}} and {{cd|game_info}} chat types have been removed.
* Chat types have been simplified and are now only required to define {{cd|chat}} and {{cd|narration}} decorations.
** Chat types no longer support overlays.
** A system message should instead be used to display overlays.

'''{{samp|[[server.properties]]}}'''
* {{cd|enforce-secure-profile}} is now defaulted to true for dedicated servers.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.19.1 Pre-release 2
|;dev
|253112|The game output console is logged with warnings regarding chat packets with invalid signatures when using entity selectors within commands.
|253121|Entities and other non-player chat message sources appear as players on the Select Chat Messages to Report screen.
|;previous
|253493|The descriptions of report categories can once again overlap the "Description:" subtitle.
|253495|Selection boxes of fields within the "Select Report Category" menu list don't contain white outlines when selected using the {{key|Tab}} key.
|253497|Entities and other non-player chat message sources appear in the Social Interactions menu.
|253501|Long messages within the "Select Chat Messages to Report" menu can extend beyond selection boxes and past the scroll bar.
|253517|Online players cannot connect to offline server because "invalid profile public key signature".
}}</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[de:1.19.1-pre2]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.19.1 Pre-release 2]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.19.1 Pre-release 2]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.19.1 Pre-release 2]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.19.1 Pre-release 2]]
[[ru:1.19.1 Pre-release 2 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.19.1-pre2]]