{{Infobox version
|edition=Java
|image=14w06a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 14w06a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=February 6, 2014
|parent=1.8
|clienthash=e6dd656dd57666a500079d6545a77b07b45d5a1b
|jsonhash=0bc79bdfdf67e18e5786f701f460b19ee4af50a4
|serverhash=a6a41979ed198086f2c8ae638f26286b2dc931db
|exehash=17eb137856874f1c6155dd697cf6a17ae35a48ae
|prevparent=1.7.10
|prev=14w05b
|next=14w06b
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''14w06a''' is the tenth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.8]], released on February 6, 2014,<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140207055427/https://mojang.com/2014/02/minecraft-snapshot-14w06a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w06b|website=Mojang.com|author=[[Dinnerbone]]}}</ref> which adds {{cmd|trigger}} and the <code>CanPlaceOn</code> tag.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|trigger}}'''
* Syntax: {{cmd|trigger <objective> <add:set> <value>}}.
* Functions the same way as {{cmd|scoreboard players set}} or {{cmd|scoreboard players add}}, but can only modify objectives with the <code>trigger</code> criteria (referred to as "triggers") and can only modify the score of the player running the command.
* Can be used by non-operator players.
* For a player to run this command, the trigger must be enabled for that player.
** {{cmd|scoreboard players enable <player> <trigger>}} enables the specified player to use the specified trigger objective.
** Trigger availability is stored per player, per trigger.
*** One trigger may be disabled for a player, but that player can use a different trigger.
*** One player may be unable to use a trigger, but another player can use the same trigger.
** Disabled after the trigger has been used (must be re-enabled to use the trigger again).
* Mostly for use with {{cmd|tellraw}}.

'''[[NBT format]] '''
* <code>CanPlaceOn</code> 
** Allows placing of certain blocks against other blocks in [[Adventure mode]].
** Example: {{cmd|give @p minecraft:stone 16 0 {CanPlaceOn:[minecraft:diamond_block]} }}.
* <code>HideFlags</code>.
** Allows hiding of certain parts of the tooltip.
** Bit field of <code>1/enchantments, 2/modifiers, 4/unbreakable, 8/candestroy, 16/canplace</code>.
* <code>ShowParticles</code>
** Option to show or hide all particles for a potion effect, while the 'Ambient' tag only shows fewer particles. Set to true to show, false to hide.
* <code>PickupDelay</code>
** The number of ticks before an item entity can be picked up.
** Setting to 32767 prevents the duration from decreasing, thus making the item incapable of being picked up.

'''[[Scoreboard]] '''
* A new argument for {{cmd|scoreboard}}: <code>[objective]</code>.
* Allows objectives to be reset one by one.
** Example: {{cmd|scoreboard players reset <player> [objective]}}.
* New objective criteria for team-specific kills, e.g.: <code>teamkill.red, killedByTeam.blue</code>.
* New objective criteria: <code>trigger</code>.
* Acts like the <code>dummy</code> criteria.
* Mostly for use with {{cmd|tellraw}}.
* The ability to iterate over every scoreboard player with <code>*</code>.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Achievement]] '''
* New achievement ''Overpowered''.
* Obtained by crafting an [[enchanted golden apple]].
** Requires obtaining ''Getting an Upgrade'' first.

=== General ===
'''[[Splash]] '''
* Added "Yay, puppies for everyone!"

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Barrier]]'''
* Now becomes visible when a player in Creative mode is holding a barrier in their hand.
** The block itself is not rendered, a particle appears in its place.
* Now uses [[block of redstone]] breaking particles instead of lava.

'''[[Ender crystal]]s'''
* Now generate one block lower, without bedrock underneath.

=== Items ===
'''Animation'''
* When items are collected, rather than "zooming" into the player's chest, it appears to move to the player's feet instead.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* All mobs now use the 'new' AI.<ref>{{tweet|jeb_|428840815549747200|Updating all mobs to the "new" AI system (the one introduced in 2012). Expect some minor mob behaviour changes... such as slimes swimming|January 30, 2014}}</ref>
* Mobs now show a glow of a slightly different color when hurt.
* Mobs that can ride boats can now control the boats.
** Except for ghasts and bats.

'''[[Blaze]]s'''
* Now shoot the player even if there are solid blocks between them.

'''[[Cave spider]]s and [[spider]]s'''
* Can no longer draw its line of sight through opaque blocks.

'''[[Chicken]]s'''
* Are slightly taller (0.4 blocks tall rather than 0.3).

'''[[Endermen]]'''
* Now pathfind to the player when aggravated.

'''[[Giant]]s'''
* Worn armor is now rendered.
* AI is removed.
* Are slightly taller (11.7 blocks tall rather than 10.8).

'''[[Mob (entity)|Mobs]]'''
* Leftover AI is removed.

'''[[Monster (entity)|Monsters]]'''
* Leftover AI is removed.

'''[[Magma cube]]s and [[slime]]s'''
* Now swim, and randomly change direction every so often, reducing the chance of them getting stuck at walls or corners.
* Now randomly despawn over time if no player is within a 32-meter range.
* Are slightly smaller (smallest variant is 0.51 blocks tall rather than 0.6).

'''[[Ocelot]]s'''
* Are slightly shorter (0.7 blocks tall rather than 0.8).

'''[[Silverfish]]'''
* Are significantly smaller (0.3 blocks tall and 0.4 blocks wide rather than 0.7 blocks tall and 0.3 blocks wide).

'''[[Skeleton]]s, [[witch]]es, [[zombie]]s and [[zombie villager]]s'''
* Are slightly taller (1.95 blocks tall rather than 1.8)

'''[[Snow golem]]s'''
* Are significantly larger (1.9 blocks tall and 0.7 blocks wide rather than 1.8 blocks tall and 0.4 blocks wide).

'''[[Wither]]s'''
* Are slightly shorter (3.5 blocks tall rather than 4.0)

'''[[Wither skeleton]]s'''
* Are slightly taller (2.353 blocks tall rather than 2.34)

'''[[Zombie pigmen]]'''
* Now pathfind to the player when aggravated.
* Are slightly taller (1.95 blocks tall rather than 1.8).

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|effect}}'''
* Can now also specify whether particles are to be shown: 
* Usage: {{cmd|effect <player> <effect> [seconds] [amplifier] [hideParticles]}}.
** Use 'true' to hide particles and 'false' to show; if value not given, defaults to false.

'''{{cmd|particle}}'''
* Added the <code>barrier</code> particle.
** Uses the barrier item texture.
** Used for indicating barrier blocks.

'''Data Tags'''
* <code>Age</code>
** Setting Age to a value of -32768 makes items which never expire

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Spectator mode]]'''
* An optional hotkey to show outlines on players whilst spectating.
** Can be color coded to teams.
** Can be set/canceled in Controls option.
** Outline seen when the key is held down (like sneaking when Shift is held down).

=== General ===
'''Block IDs'''
* Statistics for items/blocks can now be referenced per name, instead of ID.
** Example: <code>stat.mineBlock.minecraft.stone</code>.

'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* X, Y, and Z title has been changed from 'Feet' in the previous snapshot, to 'XYZ'.
* Day counter added. 
** Increases by 1 every dawn.
* Now displays difficulty.
** Peaceful- 0.00, Easy- 0.75, Normal- 1.50, Hard 2.25 (but numbers slowly increase the longer you are in an area).
* Now displays player rotation again.
** However now it displays it in degrees and quadrants.

'''F3 hotkeys'''
* Now display entity eye level in red.

'''[[Resource pack]]s'''
* Block models in resource packs can now be customized.
* Replaces the files in /assets/minecraft/models/.
* After loading the resource pack, the game may have to be reloaded.

'''[[Splash]]'''
* Splash changed - "OpenGL 1.2!" changed to "OpenGL 2.1 (if supported)!"

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=14w06a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|2947|Ghasts and witches do not aim properly.
|4222|While under the effect of a night vision potion, enemies no longer flash red upon taking damage.
|10099|Angry Zombie pigmen usually won't jump over 1-high transparent blocks to get to enemies.
|12061|Witch hitbox is shorter than the witch mob itself.
|12730|TNT placed on fence / nether fence/cobble wall/mossy wall and ignited has TNT fall through floor.
|19886|Plants don't cause an update when the block beneath is broken/light level changed.
|32579|Attribute "<code>followRange</code>" not working thoroughly.
|33110|Spiders (and some other mobs) are not affected by speed effects or <code>movementSpeed</code> attributes.
|36151|<code>stat.leaveGame</code> does not increment when game is closed.
|39139|<code>walkOneCm</code> stat doesn't accurately measure distance.
|41839|Chicken jockeys with baby zombie pigmen do not work.
|47705|Blaze mobs attack creative mode player.
|56363|Crash on auto-complete name of scoreboard objective.
|;dev
|44688|{{cmd|clear}} fails on strings containing spaces.
|45261|Sneaking while teleporting changes player position to face -z.
|46404|Hearts, food, armor and crosshair are the wrong color (overlay) when holding certain items.
|46427|Breaking barriers create lava and water particles.
|46435|Reticle (now hitbox) appears on tile entities in spectator mode.
|46473|Cannot open minecart with chest in spectator mode.
|46492|Texture issues with invisible slime.
|46535|Can control minecarts in spectator mode.
|46550|The head of the sheep is bugged.
|46560|When certain mobs take damage, the red damage indicator is not displayed properly.
|46599|Trapped chests display triple chests in spectator mode.
|;prev
|46694|Item frames, knots and paintings displaying void particle.
|46695|"<code>flyingSpeed</code>" flood in the dev console when flying in gamemode 1 and 3.
|46711|Spectating baby zombies has wrong eye level.
|46715|Item repair duplicating item.
|46751|Cardinal direction in debug screen change with mouse while spectating a mob.
|46761|Zombies and zombie pigmen do not show holding items.
|46950|Can see the item name when pressing hotbar shortcut key in spectator mode.
|47268|Attempting to use a post-processing effect crashes on old Mac hardware.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 14w06a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:14w06a]]
[[es:Java Edition 14w06a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 14w06a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 14w06a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 14w06a]]
[[ru:14w06a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:14w06a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版14w06a]]