{{Infobox version
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 14w17a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=April 24, 2014
|parent=1.8
|clienthash=f0ffadfeae5064fc64a5e80aa6e6787dae419fc5
|jsonhash=8ab598d1696783c449b778b641ae3c6df914b1de
|serverhash=701dca9511fa3e6b26799d11475fb3a719d6a26a
|exehash=d086adc017b813b73a36b36602f7eaef4a738295
|prevparent=1.7.10
|prev=14w11b
|next=14w18a
|nextparent=1.8.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''14w17a''' is the nineteenth snapshot for [[Java Edition 1.8]], released on April 24, 2014.<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140425132002/https://mojang.com/2014/04/minecraft-snapshot-14w17a/|title=Minecraft snapshot 14w17a|date=April 24, 2014|website=Mojang.com|author=[[Dinnerbone]]}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== World generation ===
'''[[Old Customized|Customized]] world type'''
* Highly customizable terrain generation.
* To use, select the new 'customized' world type, and then press the 'customize' button beneath.
* There are 4 pages to customize the world:
** Page 1: customizes the generation of structures, chance of lake generation, size of certain structures, and biome type and size, and sea level.
*** There are 17 customization options that affect whether [[generated structures]] will spawn in, as well as other environmental factors. Some of these presets are Yes/No inputs or sliders.
**** Sea level height, toggles for cave, village, temple, dungeon, water lake, lava lake, stronghold, mineshaft and ravine generation, sliders to control water lake, lava lake, and dungeon rarity, toggle to turn oceans into lava oceans, biome selection, biome and river size sliders.
** Page 2: customizes the ore distribution for [[dirt]], [[gravel]], [[granite]], [[diorite]], [[andesite]], [[Coal Ore|coal]], [[Iron Ore|iron]], [[Gold Ore|gold]], [[Redstone Ore|redstone]], [[Diamond Ore|diamond]] and [[Lapis Lazuli Ore|lapis]].
*** Rarity, height range and blob size.
** Pages 3 & 4: expert customization of the terrain generation.
*** There are 16 customization options that can be used to affect various aspects of Minecraft's terrain generator. These can be changed by moving sliders or by typing in values directly.
**** Main noise scale X/Y/Z to smooth out terrain, larger values for smoother terrain.
**** Biome scale/depth weight and biome scale/depth offset to stretch/squash terrain vertically based on the biomes default height settings.
**** Upper/lower limit scale to make terrain more solid/riddled with holes, depending on how close the values are to each other.
**** Height stretch to pull terrain upward, with smaller values causing more extreme stretching.
**** Height scale, coordinate scale, depth base size, depth noise exponent, depth noise scale.
* There are seven presets:
** Water world, isle land, caver's delight, mountain madness, drought, caves of chaos, good luck
* There is a button for most pages to randomize the various values.
* Uses the 'generator-settings' string known from superflat presets for server.properties and world data.
* Generate structures button disappears when selected.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|worldborder <set<nowiki>|</nowiki>center>}}'''
* Used to set size of border
*# <code>set</code>: sets the size of the border {{cmd|worldborder set <sizeInBlocks> [timeInSeconds]}}
*# <code>center</code>: sets the center of where the border will be placed {{cmd|worldborder center <x> <z>}}.

'''[[Game rule]]s'''
* <code>randomTickSpeed [value]</code>
** A new gamerule that controls how often a random tick occurs. 
** Influences how fast plants and crops grow, how fast zombie pigmen spawn from portals, how fast farmland updates, how fast grass and mycelium grow and decay and more.
** If set to 0, random ticks never occur.
** Set to 3 by default.

=== General ===
'''[[Splash]]'''
* Added the following splashes:
** "Now with multiplayer!"
** "Very influential in its circle!"

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''Block models'''
* Converted the remaining blocks to use block states.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Endermite]]s'''
* New model (currently bugged).{{info needed|how?}}
* Endermen are no longer aggressive toward non-pearl-spawned endermites.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Minecart]]s'''
* Reverted to the way they were before 14w11a.

=== World generation ===
'''[[The End]]'''
* Biome name is now "The End" instead of "Sky".

'''[[World border]]s'''
* The default world border is now an animated texture rather than an invisible bedrock{{verify|I'm pretty sure it wasn't bedrock}} barrier.
* There is now nothing beyond the world border.
* Can be changed with {{cmd|worldborder}} to prevent players from leaving the specified area.
* Is set at 60 million by default (+30 million to -30 million), divided by 8 for the nether.
* Mobs and players can't pass through it and take damage when outside, however, in the future players will be able to go back inside if the player accidentally find outside.<ref>http://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/23v9ep/minecraft_snapshot_14w17a/ch0yfwv</ref>

=== General ===
'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* All targeted blocks now have their info displayed on the right-hand side of the F3 debug screen.
* Removed the "Facing negative/positive x/z" from the F3 menu
* Improves performance.
* Some block id/metadata combinations were broken by this, such as <code>33/7</code> (6-sided piston) and <code>170/12</code> (6-sided hay bale), though all-sided logs were kept.
* [https://gist.github.com/Dinnerbone/36b4fc2c7413ffce1a05 List of block states].

'''Model format improvements'''
* Converted most of the remaining static blocks to the model format.
* Added "rotateVariantTextures": to preserve UV details through rotation.

'''[[Servers]]'''
* New server icons, displayed with 3 buttons.
** Up and down arrows to move the servers' order.
** Third button is to join the server.
* There is now a default server icon.
** Resembles the unknown resource pack icon.
* When editing and adding servers, the player can now set how it handles resource packs: Prompt, Enabled or Disabled.

== Removals ==
=== General ===
'''[[Java Edition distance effects/Historical effects|Distance effects]]'''
* [[Redstone wire]] (when flat on the ground) no longer appears extremely stretched at high distances
* [[Fire]] (when on the side or bottom of a block) will also no longer appear weird at high distances from the world origin

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=14w17a|prefix=Minecraft

|;old
|9177|Tripwire doesn't have two sided faces.
|11023|Retracting piston arm incorrect lighting.
|11607|Right click with undyed Leather armor part on cauldron with water still lower water layer.
|13485|Tripwire hook texture looks weird.
|17868|Zombies in water A.I. glitch.
|29475|Arrow sound plays twice when shot into blocks.
|30527|Achievement "Adventuring Time" does not work right.
|31468|Holes in bedrock and Replaced any block using Arbitrary tnt and flame bows.
|33086|Save-all causes lagspikes on larger maps.
|33109|scrolling with mouse wheel in server list is unresponsive.
|40615|Child animals obsessed about their parents, even after growing up.
|48826|"replace" directive in sounds.json does not work.
|49656|Cobblestone walls texture glitch.
|51953|Almost instant motion sickness due to distorted rendering.
|54386|There is a small gap in the iron bar corner.

|;dev
|45160|When holding a map you have two right arms.
|47455|When hitting a mob, the mob becomes lighter for short.
|47723|Broadcast settings - report to Mojang, links to previous bug reporting facility.
|49150|"{{cmd|scoreboard players reset *}}" produces error if tracking multiple players.
|50528|Cloning trees with decay-able leaves changes the data values on the cloned products leaves.
|50588|East/west pillars have shading error.
|50974|Furnaces cause minecarts to fly off of the track.
|51125|Minecarts are shooting off of the corners of rails.
|51131|Placing minecart on powered tracks sinks the minecart.
|51155|Minecart going up an incline of Powered Rail reverses direction at 5-15 vertical blocks.
|51182|Endermite rides below minecart.
|51216|Stacked minecarts glitch through rails.
|51338|Endermen AI problem: walking into water to kill endermites.
|51368|Minecarts traveling at full speed on diagonal track don't slow down.
|52852|setting negative variable in the {{cmd|particle}} effect crashes the game.

|;prev
|51206|<code>Hopper: java.lang.NullPointerException: Can't place skulls in multiplayer</code>.
|51241|When loading a resource pack weird dev concole message.
|51364|Slabs lighting bug in 14w11b (new one).
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* 14w17a was previously removed from the [[Java Edition launcher|launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.
* 14w17a has the second longest wait between snapshots on the same development version, with 42 days having elapsed since the release of [[14w11b]] on March 13, 2014, only beaten by the wait time between [[17w06a]] and [[17w13a]], which spanned 50 days.
*14w17a is the earliest snapshot where skins still work.
*14w17a was a really controversial snapshot, changing the physics of minecarts from the 25 block per second speed, added in [[Java Edition 14w11a|14w11a]] back to 8 blocks per second, this was due to criticism that the derailing feature messed with builds.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:14w17a]]
[[es:Java Edition 14w17a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 14w17a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 14w17a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 14w17a]]
[[ru:14w17a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版14w17a]]