{{Infobox version
|title=1.9.1-pre1
|edition=Java
|image=1.9.1-pre1.png
|image2=Java Edition 1.9.1-pre1.png
|type=Pre-release
|parent=1.9.1
|date=March 9, 2016
|clienthash=23386d5d39a8376ee23e61d65f27fb52ed5bee2b
|jsonhash=440cb683d6c525e5c2201e2be89d75451c30c426
|serverhash=04a6ca96d4024050c50570731568b94771ff7910
|prevparent=1.9
|prev=
|next=1.9.1-pre2
|nextparent=1.9.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.9.1-pre1''' is the first pre-release for [[1.9.1]].<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://www.mojang.com/2016/03/minecraft-191-pre-release-1/</ref><ref>{{tweet|SeargeDP|707609845688569857|Elytras have sounds? Well, in 1.9.1 pre-release 1 they do. Read about that (and more) at http://www.mojang.com/2016/03/minecr …|Mar 9, 2016}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Items ===
'''[[Armor]]'''
* New armor attribute: <code>generic.armorToughness</code>.
** Damage formula is now <math>totalDamage=damage\times(1-\frac{max(\frac{defensePoints}{5},defensePoints-\frac{damage}{2+\frac{toughness}{4}})}{25})</math>, i.e. increased toughness means less armor defense point reduction from strong attacks.
** Diamond armor has toughness 2, all other armor has toughness 0. A full set of diamond armor, therefore gives a toughness attribute of 8.
* New option <code>enableWeakAttacks</code> in [[options.txt]].
** Defaults to false. When false, the client will ignore attempts to attack when weapon cooldown is less than 75% recharged.
** The effect was removed in the final release, however the option itself remains.

'''[[Elytra]]'''
* Added sound effects, while gliding in the Elytra.
** Sound event <code>item.elytra.flying</code>.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Dispenser]]s'''
* Increased limit per tick for scheduled tile ticks from 1,000 to 65,536.

'''[[Hopper]]s'''
* Can now push and pull items to and from [[chest]]s, that are blocked from opening.

=== Mobs ===
'''General'''
* Improved AI.

=== Command format ===
'''[[Target selectors]]'''
* Entity selector <code>c</code> (count) now sorts on proximity using true coordinates, not coordinates snapped to the grid.<ref>{{bug|MC-96927}} – Selector <code>c=</code> targeting inaccurate entity position</ref>

=== Gameplay ===
'''Combat'''
* Missing an attack no longer triggers the weapon cooldown (later reverted in final release.)

=== General ===
'''[[Loot table]]s'''
* Now also work with [[dispenser]]s and [[dropper]]s.
** Dispensers with [[arrow]]s in [[jungle temple]]s now use loot tables.

'''Session IDs'''
* Now no longer printed by the game to the log files or to the launcher.<ref>[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCL-4420 MCL-4420] - Shown as "<censored>" in launcher but correctly written into log file.</ref>

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=1.9.1 Pre-Release 1|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|7961|Hopper can't fill or empty a chest if the chest is blocked from opening.
|56162|Setting {{cmd|worldborder damage amount 0}} doesn't work.
|95352|Spatial target arguments <code>c</code>, <code>dx</code>, <code>dy</code>, <code>dz</code> behave unexpectedly and inconsistently.
|;From version 1.9
|90257|A chain of command blocks may takes more than 1 tick to traverse.
|96219|Block duplication bug with pistons (ghost blocks).
|96927|Selector <code>c</code> targeting inaccurate entity position.
|98327|Elytra texture transparency issues.
}}
'''Other fixes:'''
* Fixed game engine adding non-existent entities (failed mob spawns, etc.) to its internal lists, increasing instability.<ref>"Paper patch 0078" – https://github.com/starlis/Paper/blob/b2dd99e74e91fbe5f7c28fe29faa58b7162c1aa6/Spigot-Server-Patches/0078-Optimize-Navigation-Listener.patch</ref></onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|2QDT5TxtDSI}}

== Trivia ==
This version was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:1.9.1-pre1]]
[[es:Java Edition 1.9.1-pre1]]
[[fr:Édition Java 1.9.1-pre1]]
[[ja:Java Edition 1.9.1-pre1]]
[[pt:Edição Java 1.9.1-pre1]]
[[ru:1.9.1-pre1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版1.9.1-pre1]]