{{dangerous version|Breaking blocks can cause the game to crash.<ref>{{bug|MC-161268||{{cd|java.lang.IndexOutOfBoundsException}} while tesselating block model; game crashes when breaking a block.|Fixed}}</ref>|version=development|edition=java|type=crash}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft 19w38a
|image=19w38a.png
|image2=Java Edition 19w38a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=September 18, 2019
|clienthash=33e153dbada31777c9344d3e21398f825bd92064
|jsonhash=9aa2357a825b659714762aeef4062d19d6617677
|serverhash=e40184002fa2e183de5fda0229d0709cfd6bfe8a
|clientmap=8182cb6c4e9acd17c8865368e70955f6ca3e6d8e
|servermap=62537e90eeb6de46c4d14c5ab2ed4c952fb5b3ea
|parent=1.15
|prevparent=1.14.4
|prev=19w37a
|next=19w38b
|nextparent=1.15.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''19w38a''' is the fifth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.15]], released on September 18, 2019, which makes some technical changes such as adding new parameters to existing [[commands]] and makes changes to the rendering system.<ref name="19w38a">{{snap|19w38a|September 18, 2019}}</ref> However, due to a game crashing bug caused by breaking [[block]]s, it was replaced by [[19w38b]] later that day.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|data}}'''
* Can now use [[command storage|<code>storage</code>]] as a source or target, which is general purpose, key/value storage.
** Each storage is identified by a distinct [[resource location]].
** Storage is shared between all [[dimension]]s in a world.
** Data in storage persists between on world close.

'''{{cmd|execute}}'''
* Added subcommand {{cmd|execute if predicate}}
** Evaluates custom predicates, defined in the <code>predicates</code> directory of a [[data pack]].
* Added subcommand {{cmd|execute store storage}}
** Stores the command result to the [[command storage|storage]] target for the {{cmd|data}} command.

'''{{cmd|schedule}}'''
* Added new optional syntax {{cmd|schedule ... [append{{!}}replace]}}.
** Defaults to <code>replace</code>.
* Added new syntax {{cmd|schedule clear <''id''>}} to remove existing schedules.
** Returns the number of removed schedules.
* Extended {{cmd|schedule}} to allow scheduling the same function multiple times.

'''[[Target selectors]]'''
* New selector parameter <code>predicate</code> allows applying custom predicates, defined in the <code>predicates</code> directory of a [[data pack]].

'''[[Loot table]]s'''
* Loot table predicates can now be defined in separate files and used for entity selectors and in execute if command.
* Added new parameters to the <code>location_check</code> condition.
** {{nbt|int|offsetX}}, {{nbt|int|offsetY}}, {{nbt|int|offsetZ}} – optional offsets to location.
* Added <code>reference</code>.
** Includes condition defined in predicates directory of data pack, selected with name parameter.
* Added <code>time_check</code> condition.
** Checks [[time of day]].
*** {{nbt|int|value}} – range of accepted values.
*** {{nbt|int|period}} – if present, time is [[Wikipedia:Modulo|modulo]]-divided by this value (for example, if set to 24000, value operates on a time period of days).

=== General ===
'''[[Predicate]]s'''
* Added custom predicates.
** The condition part of [[loot table]]s can now be defined as separate data pack resource in <code>predicates</code> directory.

'''Entity predicate'''
* Now accepts <code>player</code> field, which checks player properties.
** Fails when entity is not [[player]].
** Fields:
*** <code>level</code> – range of allowed player levels.
*** <code>gamemode</code> – same values as {{cmd|gamemode}} command.
*** <code>stats</code> – list of statistics to match. Entry fields: {{nbt|string|type}} (like <code>minecraft:custom</code>), {{nbt|string|stat}} (like <code>minecraft:sneak_time</code>) and {{nbt|int|value}} (an integer range).
**** For example, <code>{"stats":[{"type":"minecraft:used","stat":"minecraft:fishing_rod","value":{"min":2,"max":10}}]}</code> succeeds if the player has used fishing rods a total of 2 through 10 times; more or less fails.
*** <code>recipes</code> – map of recipe IDs. Boolean value tells if it should or should not be known to player.
*** <code>advancements</code> – map of advancement IDs. If value is a boolean, checks if advancement is done. If value is an object, checks completion of criterions.
* Entity predicate now accepts <code>team</code> field, which matches team name.

'''Location predicate'''
* Predicate now accepts <code>block</code> and <code>fluid</code> sub-predicate.
** Fields:
*** <code>block</code> – exact [[block]] ID to match.
*** <code>fluid</code> – exact [[fluid]] ID to match.
*** <code>tag</code> – block/fluid ID to match.
*** <code>nbt</code> – matcher for block entity NBT (only for blocks).
*** <code>state</code> – map of name/value properties. Value can be integer, boolean or string or object with optional min and max properties.
* Predicate now accepts the <code>light</code> sub-predicate.
** Object has one integer range – <code>light</code> – that matches visible light (maximum value of sky-darkening and block light).

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''General'''
* The outline around [[block]]s (which appears when a block is looked at) is now thicker.

=== Command format ===
'''{{cmd|gamerule}}'''
* Setting game rule <code>fireDamage</code> to <code>false</code> now prevents damage from [[magma block]]s.

'''{{cmd|kill}}'''
* The first parameter now defaults to <code>@s</code> if no <code>target</code> argument is given.

=== General ===
'''[[Debug screen]]'''
* The "chunk updates" counter on the second line no longer appears.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=19w38a
|;old
|70111|When a thrown ender pearl is in the air, it disappears after relogging and the player does not get teleported.
|96207|Boats breaking lily pads creates too many particles.
|101247|Horses, donkeys, mules, and boats sometimes disappear after dismounting.
|136367|When exiting a boat it will put the player on top of the boat.
|138465|Ender pearls forget their owner after reload (of game or chunks).
|145275|Reloading a resource pack messes up all textures for an instant.
|157697|Unplayable conditions when pillagers loaded: extreme lag spikes.
|158373|Raid horn sounds play globally in all villages.
|158414|When riding an entity, players appear to be at the location they mounted it at as soon as they are out of range.
|160367|Pillagers do not despawn.
|;previous
|160919|Disabling fire damage does not disable magma block damage.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|0eVFS4LuPkU}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.1x}}

[[cs:19w38a]]
[[de:19w38a]]
[[es:Java Edition 19w38a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 19w38a]]
[[it:Java Edition 19w38a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 19w38a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 19w38a]]
[[ru:19w38a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版19w38a]]