{{Infobox version
|title=13w42a
|image=13w42a Banner.png
|image2=Java Edition 13w42a.png
|edition=Java
|type=Snapshot
|date=October 17, 2013
|parent=1.7.2
|clienthash=1021c0a06cc98db76dad2b19805ed21935c8d938
|jsonhash=d6d9998807948f87aaf279dd0555dfdbf1c3baaf
|serverhash=d7007e5f46bb1ad4f4d38dc8cd2ea54898c6cccb
|exehash=5bda1ffa1e5eee880b52f58ecb806a4ef01833d1
|prevparent=1.6.4
|prev=13w41b
|next=13w42b
|nextparent=1.7.4
}}<onlyinclude>

'''13w42a''' is the twelfth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.7.2]], released on October 17, 2013.<ref>{{cite|url=https://www.mojang.com/2013/10/minecraft-snapshot-13w42a/|archive=y|title=Minecraft snapshot 13w42b (Updated!)|author=[[Dinnerbone]]|website=Mojang.com|date=October 17, 2013}}</ref> It allows for more letters to be put on signs, change the texture of [[stained glass]] and makes [[witch]]es a common monster (like creepers and zombies) instead of spawning exclusively in and around [[witch hut]]s.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Sign]]s'''
* Different letters can be typed now.

'''[[Stained glass]]'''
* Have a smoother/transparent texture.

'''[[Stained glass pane]]s'''
* Have a smoother/transparent texture.

'''[[Water]]'''
* Transparency slightly adjusted.
* If water is directly adjacent to [[ice]], when looking through the ice, the player cannot see the water. 
** However, the player can see the ice when looking through water.
** If water is not directly adjacent to ice, the player can see the water when looking through the ice.<ref>{{tweet|Dinnerbone|390926161091768320|It's a bug, don't expect it to stay sorry. :( The behaviour is very unreliable and it's part of bigger issues.|October 17, 2013}}</ref>
* The player can no longer see the water surface from underwater

=== Items ===
'''[[Map]]s'''
* Now display the color of colored [[wool]] and [[stained clay]], allowing a wider range of colors visible on maps.
* Each different type of [[block]] has a different shading on the map.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Witch]]es '''
* Now spawn anywhere where the light level is 7 or less, including any biome and underground.

'''[[Zombie]]s'''
* Can only break doors when having the new CanBreakDoors tag set to 1, an up to 10% chance.<ref>https://www.reddit.com/r/Minecraft/comments/2qqgcx/til_minecraft_18_changed_how_zombies_break_doors/</ref>

=== General ===
'''[[Inventory]]'''
* The armor boxes get black when empty and away from cursor.
* Putting cursor over the armor inventory displays which armor is to put on there.

'''[[Resource pack]]s'''
* Rewrote the sound system.
** The player is now able to add new sounds using resource packs.
* Resource packs can now add, remove, supplement, randomize, and group sounds using JSON.
* Sounds and music are now stored together in the new .minecraft/assets/sounds folder.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=13w42a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|4921|Sounds (e.g. mobs/portals/water) don't immediately fade.
|10633|Players can't look through ice or stained glass if they have it in their hand, but they can if it is placed.
|19483|Sounds playing after leaving world.
|26660|Constant minecart sound.
|28478|Successful hit sound effect does not match the sound in the assets sound folder.
|;dev
|31577|Major bug: arrows shot by infinity bow/skeleton do not despawn over time.
|32082|Signs, heads, and cauldrons have a full block breaking texture.
|32295|Glitchy item borders with mipmapping and anisotropic filtering activated.
|32314|The Mojang logo is blurry.
|33141|Rain does not stop.
|33182|Losing connection to server when a minecart command block is placed on a powered activator rail.
|34096|Minecart sound is considered an enemy monster.
|34649|Glass panes, stained glass, and ice show the texture in all faces.
|;prev
|34889|Superflat shows void particles.
|34892|Mobs/other players only looking in one direction/walking backwards on SMP.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* [[13w42b]] and the April Fools' version [[3D Shareware v1.34]] both have the same protocol version as 13w42a.
* 13w42a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:13w42a]]
[[es:Java Edition 13w42a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 13w42a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 13w42a]]
[[ko:Java Edition 13w42a]]
[[pt:Edição Java 13w42a]]
[[ru:13w42a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版13w42a]]