{{Infobox version
| title = Minecraft 23w18a
| image = 23w18a.jpg
| image2 = Java Edition 23w18a.png
| edition = Java
| type = Snapshot
| date = May 3, 2023
| jsonhash = e343b8c4b9dfa5880209cf90d4e1da20e589e27a
| clienthash = a634e77f4292dba7af15f84fac946bf221dd1839
| clientmap = d7d4457501369240ae12b6c7ec0836e449604396
| serverhash = 240177c763b6009ea81aaf0ef14a73822320856d
| servermap = 7015077a47c07e8d129280b73a40e8ddb11fc589
| parent = 1.20
| prevparent = 1.19.4
| prev = 23w17a
| next = 1.20 Pre-release 1
| nextparent = 1.20.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''23w18a''' is the sixth and final [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.20]], released on May 3, 2023.<ref>{{snap|23w18a|May 3, 2023}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Advancement]]s'''
* The Power of Books
** Read the power signal of a [[Chiseled Bookshelf]] using a [[Comparator]].

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Smithing table]]'''
* No longer requires a smithing template to be in the template slot before placing an item into the other slots.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Slime]]s and [[magma cube]]s'''
* Are now affected by the [[Jump Boost]] effect.

=== General ===
'''[[Advancement]]s'''
* All fields in <code>placed_block</code>, <code>item_used_on_block</code>, and <code>allay_drop_item_on_block</code> advancement triggers have been collapsed to a single location field.
** New location is similar to the player field - it's a list of loot conditions/predicates.
** All conditions in this list must match for a trigger to run.
* Conditions are evaluated in a new loot context called <code>advancement_location</code>. It has access to:
** Player as <code>this</code> entity.
** Position of the placed/interacted block.
** Block state of the placed/interacted block.
** Held/used item as "tool". 
* Migration guide:
** Contents of old location field should be migrated to a <code>location_check</code> condition.
** Contents of item field should be migrated to a <code>match_tool</code> condition.
** Contents of block and state fields should be migrated to a <code>block_state_property</code> condition.
* Advancement fields now have a new boolean field called <code>sends_telemetry_event</code>.

'''[[Data pack]]s'''
* Version is now <code>15</code>, accounting for predicate/loot table and advancement changes.

'''[[Creative inventory]]'''
* [[Jukebox]] has been added to the "Redstone Blocks" tab.

'''[[Predicate]]s'''
* Condition <code>alternative</code> has been renamed to <code>any_of</code>.
* Added new condition <code>all_of</code> that passes only when all sub-conditions pass.
** It has the same syntax as <code>any_of</code>.

'''[[Sound]]s'''
* Walking on a block now always plays a step sound.
** It was previously not the case if the player was walking along the edge of a block with air or fluid beside it.
* Walking on the ocean floor produces a step sound for the block the player is walking on, but at a lower volume and pitch.

'''[[Telemetry]]'''
* Added new property: <code>launcher_name</code>.
** A new global property sent with every event.
** This is set based on the minecraft.launcher.brand system property.
** This helps developers troubleshoot game launch related bugs more effectively, as they are able to see whether the issue originated in the Minecraft launcher or a third-party program.
* Added new property <code>realms_map_content</code> to event <code>world_loaded</code>.
** When loading into a Realms Map Content world (Minigame), the <code>world_loaded</code> event receives the name of that map.
** This is to help developers understand how Java Realms users interact with Java Realms adventure or minimap content.
* Added new optional event <code>advancement_made</code>.
** This event is triggered when a player completes an advancement.
** This allows developers to see the advancement ID and the time when the advancement was completed, and helps them as a studio understand player progress and limits, which informs their game design.
* Added new optional event <code>game_load_times</code>.
** An event that is triggered when the game client is loaded, and includes the time it took for the client to load.
** This is so that developers can work on improving and reducing the time it takes to load the game client.

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=23w18a
|;old
|1133|Whether or not a player experiences some effect is calculated based on the block under the center of the player.
|2604|Walking on non-solid blocks with no collision plays their respective walking sounds.
|48923|Slime/magma cubes not affected by jump boost potion effect.
|75721|Arrow buttons within the book GUI are rendered above tooltips.
|130089|Turtle eggs break weird at block edges.
|158154|Players can bounce on beds even when not directly touching it.
|199952|Skylight does not propagate across certain chunk borders upon world generation.
|203317|There is a missing torch in one of the Stronghold rooms leaving a Light source.
|207290|Sculk sensors don't detect vibrations while walking on the edge of a block.
|212583|Sculk sensors are not activated upon walking inside of scaffolding that has air below it.
|217447|"Walking" on nether wart produces stone footstep sounds instead of nether wart sounds.
|240098|Minecraft can't be correctly profiled to Windows 11 version.
|242105|When landing on some non-full blocks while touching a thin block, impact particles use the thin block's texture.
|244307|Dark Chunks when exploring since 1.18.
|252389|When landing (or jumping) on wool with your hitbox over the edge, it produces a vibration.
|257269|Sculk sensor detects player walking between carpet and wool.
|259978|Minecraft telemetry data detected Windows 11 as Windows 10.
|260279|Jukebox is not in the Redstone Blocks tab in the creative inventory.
|261417|The hitboxes of sniffers are not adjusted when they lay down.
|262067|The type of sniffer digging particles that are produced is determined by the block that sniffers are located on instead of the block that sniffers are digging.
|262069|Sniffers continue digging after their target block is destroyed.
|;dev
|261952|Clocks flicker rapidly when enchanted and in an unnatural dimension.
|262003|Bundle tooltip does not show its interface.
|262104|Rendering of FPS graph seems to be performing worse than before.
|;previous
|262123|Advancement titles of new advancements are improperly capitalized.
|262185|Partially transparent pixels in font glyphs appear more opaque than they should in the tooltip.
|262133|Strong lag spikes when moving above a cleared area with exposed void.
|262218|Block light updates don't cross chunk borders properly in 23w17a.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{Slicedlime|DkALpstYcKw}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.2x}}

[[de:23w18a]]
[[es:Java Edition 23w18a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 23w18a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 23w18a]]
[[lzh:二三週一八甲]]
[[pt:Edição Java 23w18a]]
[[ru:23w18a (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:23w18a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版23w18a]]