{{Infobox version
|title=15w39a
|edition=Java
|image=Java Edition 15w39a.png
|type=Snapshot
|date=September 21, 2015
|parent=1.9
|clienthash=5a26b65ccea3c436a56673e3d59ddd1bc901a827
|jsonhash=75423b4d58f4247fba33e71822b970e5c2c0d841
|serverhash=871b86fac1a4d71642166e0deba2a4b85780d82a
|exehash=ab3a0282661b2bf8bb7528c86d45751bd3917f95
|prevparent=1.8.9
|prev=15w38b
|next=15w39b
|nextparent=1.9.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''15w39a''' is the twenty-sixth [[snapshot]] for [[Java Edition 1.9]], released on September 21, 2015,<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2015/09/minecraft-snapshot-15w39a/</ref> which tweaks the dimensions of some mobs.

== Changes ==
=== Mobs ===
'''[[Cow]]s & [[mooshroom]]s'''
* Are slightly taller (1.4 blocks tall rather than 1.3).

'''[[Creeper]]s'''
* Are slightly shorter (1.7 blocks tall rather than 1.8).

'''[[Iron golem]]s'''
* Are slightly shorter (2.7 blocks tall rather than 2.9).

'''[[Skeleton]]s'''
* Are slightly taller (1.99 blocks tall rather than 1.95).

'''[[Squid]]'''
* Are slightly smaller (0.8 blocks square rather than 0.95).

'''[[Villager]]s'''
* Are slightly taller (1.95 blocks tall rather than 1.8).

'''[[Wither skeleton]]s'''
* Are slightly smaller (2.4 blocks tall and 0.7 blocks wide rather than 2.535 blocks tall and 0.72 blocks wide).

'''[[Wolves]]'''
* Are slightly taller (0.85 blocks tall rather than 0.8).

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=15w39a|prefix=Minecraft
|;old
|51987|Minecart/activator dismount location is inconsistent in cardinal directions.
|52274|Dismounting does not work to the South, South east, and South west, and is offset in negative quadrants.
|;dev
|84060|Trapdoor placement is awkward.
|84335|Input lag from mouse and WASD controls.
|86391|Acacia leaves and dark oak leaves pick block function links errors.
|87658|Shield patterns offset by 1 pixel.
|;previous
|88929|Items lost when shift-clicking in full container/inventory.
}}</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|09l78RGdwyo}}

== Trivia ==
* Unlike most of the first-of-the-week snapshots, this was released on a Monday instead of Wednesday.
* 15w39a was previously removed from the [[launcher]] for some time, but was added back in September 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:15w39a]]
[[es:Java Edition 15w39a]]
[[fr:Édition Java 15w39a]]
[[ja:Java Edition 15w39a]]
[[lzh:一五週三九甲]]
[[nl:Versiegeschiedenis/Ontwikkelingsversies#15w39]]
[[ru:15w39a (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版15w39a]]