{{Lost version|pre-reupload}}
{{Infobox version
|title=0.1.1
|server?=true
|edition=java
|date=August 12, 2010
|client=[[Alpha v1.0.16]]
|serverdl='''Original:''' Unavailable<br>
'''Reupload:''' [https://vault.omniarchive.uk/versions/java/server/alpha/a0.1.1-1707.jar .jar]
|prefix=Alpha server
|prevparent=0.1.0
|next=0.1.2
|nextparent=0.2.0
}}

'''0.1.1''' was a server version of [[Java Edition Alpha]] released for client version [[Alpha v1.0.16|v1.0.16]] on August 12, 2010.<ref name="blogpost">{{twon|942787216|Minecraft Alpha 1.0.16, Minecraft Server 0.1.1, and a new Launcher|August 12, 2010}}</ref>
This version was reuploaded for unknown reasons.

== Additions ==
=== Command format ===
'''[[Command]]s'''
* Added support for the {{cmd|ban}} and {{cmd|pardon}} commands to ban and unban a player from the game.
* Added support for the {{cmd|ban-ip}} and {{cmd|pardon-ip}} commands to ban and unban a specific IP.
* Added support for the {{cmd|op}} and {{cmd|deop}} commands to add/remove a player from the op list.

=== General ===
'''Authentication'''
* Added online authentication for online servers.
** The server can now be started in either online/secure mode or offline/insecure mode. A secure server requires all connecting players to first authenticate on [[minecraft.net]], then checks that the authentication matches, before letting the player in. A server running in offline mode doesn't do any such checks, nor does it ask the client to authenticate, but players cannot be sure that people who connect really are who they claim they are. Offline mode is meant for LAN play where the player knows the people connecting to the server.

'''Ops'''
* Added player ops who can send server commands by typing a slash followed by a server command.
** Server ops can also build/destroy blocks near the spawn area.

== Changes ==
* Made the server save terrain more frequently.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Alpha Server 0.1.1]]
[[es:Java Edition Alpha server 0.1.1]]
[[ja:Java Edition Alpha server 0.1.1]]
[[lzh:爪哇版首測版伺服器〇點一點一]]
[[pt:Edição Java Alpha server 0.1.1]]
[[ru:Сервер Alpha 0.1.1 (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Alpha сервер 0.1.1 (Java Edition)]]
[[zh:Java版Alpha服务器0.1.1]]