{{Wip}}{{Character
| gender = Male
| species = Human
| affiliations = * [[Coach Schwartz]]
| actor = [[James Fouhey]] <small>(audiobook)</small>
| first_appearance = ''[[Minecraft: The Tournament]]''
| familial = * [[Dri Warner]] <small>(older sister)</small>
* [[Granny]] <small>(grandmother)</small>
* [[Mr. Warner]] <small>(father)</small>
* [[Piper Warner]] <small>(mother)</small>
}}

'''Jontre "Jett" Warner''' is a {{MC}} player, and the main protagonist of ''[[Minecraft: The Tournament]]''.

== Appearance ==
{{Expand section}}
Jett is a teenager with dark skin, typically as dark as his [[Dri Warner|sister]]'s, though his has gotten noticeably lighter from frequent work outside. While gardening, he favors green and blue gloves without holes on the fingers. 

== Personality ==
{{Expand section}}
Jett is an ambitious young man, with aspirations of joining the [[Environmental Stewardship Alliance]], hoping to get noticed by working in his school's gardening club. In his free time, he is an avid player of ''[[Minecraft]]'', taking interest in [[Creative]], [[Speedrun|speedrunning]], and potentially becoming an online content creator. While playing, he shows compassion and a casual yet determined mindset, but suffers from anxiety over potentially blundering his techniques. He is also quite creative, having written an essay about "gamifying neighborhood cleanup events," which was apparently very sophisticated and clever, as well as an expansive presentation with unique artwork of ''[[Minecraft]]'' characters.

In spite of his passion and determination, Jett is still an anxious child, who harbors anxiety and gets nervous easily. He struggles with romantic emotions especially, getting easily embarrassed when asked about his [[Imani Rivers|crush]] and cringes whenever his parents "do lovey stuff."

== Powers and abilities ==
{{Expand section}}While at school, Jett plays as the goalie for the soccer team. While playing ''Minecraft'', Jett has a very broad set of skills, doing well in multiple different playstyles from the get-go.

== Biography ==

=== Preparation ===
When first introduced, Jett was working by himself at [[Hurston Prep]]’s greenhouse, having been the only member of the gardening club to arrive that day. As he faced difficulties with yellowing crops, he reminisced about gardening mechanics in ''Minecraft'', and decided to play some of the game before leaving for soccer practice. He settles on doing an Icarus speedrun, a type where the player starts with [[elytra]], and discovers a [[village]] above a [[cave]], before traveling to a [[shipwreck]]. Eventually, he is able to create a [[Nether portal]], and has trouble finding a [[Nether fortress]], before being burned to death by a [[ghast]].

He's soon found by [[Mr. Alvarez]], who scolds him for lounging around in the greenhouse, before bringing an email to his attention. It's from the [[Southwest Regional Tech Fair's Minecraft Tournament]], which Jett had previously enlisted in, forgot about, and has now been selected to participate. Jett hesitates, feeling humility over his talents, but gets hooked when he discovers the prizes, beginning to weigh his options. He decides to recruit his older sister Dri as a partner, before realizing that the tournament is happening during spring break, which is usually vacation time for his family.

After returning from soccer practice, he begins researching the tournament, but can't find much. Upon meeting up with Dri he shows reluctance to tell their parents, but agree to get their permission on Wednesday. In the meantime he works on a slide deck to convince them. This includes images of [[endermen]] with graduation hats, a photo of [[Creeper Charge Banner Pattern|creeper charge]] decorations, a picture of Dri doing pirouettes on top of [[glistering melon slice]]s, and "block versions" of his parents holding [[honey bottle]]s and [[chorus fruit]]. Once he finishes the presentation, he contemplates how to show his [[Piper Warner|mother]] it, who is working away from home in New York. This catches the eye of his [[Granny|grandmother]], followed by his father, as he struggles to explain the development to the three.

After finding out he's been selected, he's surprised to see them all agree to let him play. Excited, Jett decides to test his skills by fighting the [[ender dragon]], but quickly overhears his father and mother talking about the situation with his grandmother. As it turned out, they had already canceled the resort vacation and were struggling to explain the problem to him. As his parents begin flirting to cope, he decides to leave, heading up to Dri's room to play. The run goes differently than expected, Dri dying from an accident, but Jett tries to continue and finish it. This impresses her.

== Relationships ==

=== Warners ===
{{Expand section}}From the outset, Jett is shown to have a close bond with his family. He looks up to his older sister for guidance and support, while his parents and grandma show great pride in his ambitions. When he initially reveals his spot in the tournament, he expects them all to frown upon this, if not refuse to let him play. Instead he is met with unanimous, immediate support, if followed by his father embarrassing him.

=== Hurston Prep ===
{{Empty section}}

== Quotes ==
{{Quote|Time to put the world on notice. Separate the contenders from the pretenders. Make my mark on the land. Draw my line in the sand. This would be all so much easier if I could just, say... hold my breath for an hour.

Who knew my greatness would stink so bad?|Opening line from the novel}}{{Quote|A huge weight lifts off my shoulders. I feel like I'm back in an elytra. The whole world is within reach – wherever I want to go. Who knew such an amazing opportunity would come from me taking a chance on a bit of extra work, with no idea how it would turn out?|Jett's resolve}}

== Trivia ==

* In one of his worlds, he built a recreation of {{Wikipedia|Marrakech}}, the fourth largest city in {{Wikipedia|Morocco}}. This is because his mother wanted to visit there.
* Jett is described as favoring ''Minecraft'' on a "handheld." Due to the time the story released, it can be presumed this is referring to the {{Wikipedia|Nintendo Switch}}.
* Jett is unaware of what the word "panache" means.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox meta novels|the tournament}}
[[Category:Book characters]]
[[Category:Male]]
[[Category:Players]]
[[Category:Students]]