'''JavaScript Object Notation''' ('''JSON''') is a lightweight data-interchange format.<ref>https://www.json.org</ref> It consists of key-value pairs and arrays values, and it is used for storing and transmitting data in ''Minecraft''.

== Occurences ==
In ''Minecraft'', JSON format is used to store the following data:

* [[Text]] in the {{cmd|tellraw}} and {{cmd|titleraw}} commands, [[book]]s, [[sign]]s, item names, entity names, world names, [[scoreboard]] displays, and text that is displayed through [[script API]]s in {{BE}}.
* The <code>[[pack.mcmeta]]</code> file that describes a {{el|je}} [[resource pack]] and [[data pack]].
* The <code>[[manifest.json]]</code> file that describes a {{el|be}} [[add-on]].
* Files in a [[resource pack]] that define [[model]]s, [[colormap]]s, [[sounds.json|sound events]], [[text]]s, [[font]]s, [[Resource pack#GUI|GUI]], etc.
* Files in a [[data pack]] that define [[advancements]], [[loot table]]s, [[tags]], [[recipes]], [[Custom dimension|dimensions]], [[Custom dimension|dimension types]] and [[predicates]].{{only|java}}
* Files in a [[behavior pack]] that define [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/reference/content/entityreference/ entity behaviors], [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/reference/content/blockreference/ block behaviors], item behaviors, etc.{{only|bedrock}}
* Files in a [[skin pack]] that identify the skins being used.{{only|bedrock}}
* [[Advancements]] and [[statistics]] (as <code>.minecraft/saves/*/data/stats/*.json</code>)
* The profile data for the [[launcher]] (as [[launcher_profiles.json]])
* Information about downloaded [[version]]s (as [[version.json]])
* Inside the {{w|Base64}} encoded textures data of [[player head]]s and players.{{only|java}}

== Syntax ==
=== Data types ===
A JSON file must contain a single JSON value, which can use any of the following five data types: string, number, object, array, and boolean. JSON files can be contained in a single line, however it is often useful to use indentation and line breaks to make a long JSON file more readable.

==== String ====
A {{w|String (computer science)|string}} is delimited by quotes and can contain any combination of characters. Some special characters need to be escaped; this is done with a back slash (<code>\</code>).

* {{cd|"foo"}}
* {{cd|"Hello, world"}}
* {{cd|"An escaped \" quote within a string"}}

==== Number ====
A number is defined by entering in any number. Numbers can be non-whole, as indicated with a period, and can use exponents with <code>e</code>.

* {{cd|2}}
* {{cd|-0.5}}
* {{cd|3e6}} (=3×10<sup>6</sup>)

==== Object ====
An {{w|Object (computer science)|object}}, also referred to as a compound, is delimited by opening and closing curly brackets and contains key/value pairs. Pairs are separated with commas, keys and associated values are separated with colons. Each contained key needs to have a name that is unique within the object. A value can be of any data type as well (including another object).

<syntaxhighlight lang="json" line="1">
{
    "Bob": {
        "ID": 1234,
        "lastName": "Ramsay"
    },
    "Alice": {
        "ID": 2345,
        "lastName": "Berg"
    }
}
</syntaxhighlight>

==== Array ====
{{w|Array (data type)|Array}}s are delimited by opening and closing square brackets and can contain values of any data type, separated by commas. Unlike lists in [[NBT format|NBT]], values in a JSON array can use different data types.

<syntaxhighlight lang="json">
["Bob", "Alice", "Carlos", "Eve"]
</syntaxhighlight>

==== Boolean ====
A {{w|Boolean data type|boolean}} can be either <code>true</code> or <code>false</code>.

<syntaxhighlight lang="json" line="1">
{
    "Steve": {
        "isAlive": true
    },
    "Alex": {
        "isAlive": false
    }
}
</syntaxhighlight>

== See also ==
* [[w:JSON|JSON on Wikipedia]]

==References==
{{Reflist}}
== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|general}}
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition}}

[[Category:Development]]

[[de:JSON]]
[[es:JSON]]
[[fr:JSON]]
[[ja:JSON]]
[[lzh:JSON]]
[[pt:JSON]]
[[ru:Команды консоли#JSON-текст]]
[[th:JSON]]
[[uk:JSON]]
[[zh:JSON]]