{{about|the enchantment|the game mechanic|Knockback (mechanic)}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = II
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|sword|link=Sword}}<br/>{{ItemSprite|Spear|link=Spear}}
| secondaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Axe|link=Axe}}{{upcoming|java Combat Tests|nocat=1}}
| weight = 5
}}
'''Knockback''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[sword]]s and [[spear]]s that increases melee [[Knockback (mechanic)|knockback]].

== Obtaining ==
Knockback can be obtained from [[enchanting tables]], drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
Knockback increases horizontal melee knockback by 2.586 blocks per level. The base knockback of attacks without the enchantment and without doing a [[sprint-knockback attack]] is 1.552 blocks, causing an attack with Knockback II to deal 6.724 blocks of knockback.{{more information needed|What about with sprint-knockback attacks?}} Knockback also increases vertical melee knockback from 0.8125 blocks to 1 block, regardless of the level of enchantment. Sword [[sweep attack]]s are affected by the Knockback enchantment. The increased knockback from this enchantment stacks with sprint-knockback attacks.

If an attack from a Knockback weapon is blocked by a [[shield]], the knockback effect doesn't apply in {{JE}} but does in {{BE}}. By use of [[command]]s to increase the level of enchantment beyond II, the enchantment has diminishing returns when attacking [[player]]s but not when attacking [[mob]]s. {{IN|JE}}, players can hit [[armor stand]]s back with the Knockback enchantment, but not {{in|BE}}. [[Damage|Damage immunity]] provides immunity to the Knockback enchantment.

=== Specific cases ===
If Knockback is applied to a [[trident]] by use of [[command]]s or an [[anvil]] in Creative, the enchantment functions when using the weapon's melee attack but not when using its ranged attack.

== Resistant mobs ==
* [[Squid]] and [[glow squid]] are resistant to knockback when outside of water.
* [[Iron golem]]s, [[warden]]s and [[shulker]]s are completely unaffected by knockback.
* [[Agent]]s and [[NPC]]s are invulnerable and completely unaffected by knockback.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=knockback
|displayname=Knockback
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=knockback
|displayname=Knockback
|id=12
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.0|dev=Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4|Added Knockback, which can be applied to [[sword]]s.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9|dev=15w45a|The Knockback is now correctly impacted by [[knockback resistance]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.11|dev=25w41a|Added [[spear]]s, which Knockback can be applied to.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added Knockback.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Knockback.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Knockback.}}
}}

=== ''Java Edition Combat Tests'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|combat java}}
|{{HistoryLine||4|Knockback can now be applied to [[axe]]s.|Knockback can be received by axes directly through the [[enchanting table]], rather than requiring an [[anvil]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||7c|Knockback now requires an [[anvil]] to be applied to axes.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== See also ==
*[[Punch]], which applies knockback to [[arrow]]s shot with a [[bow]].

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|melee}}

[[de:Rückstoß]]
[[es:Empuje]]
[[fr:Recul]]
[[ja:ノックバック]]
[[pt:Repulsão]]
[[th:ตีกระดอน]]
[[zh:击退]]