{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = 2.3.173
| image = 
| edition = Launcher
| date = May 11, 2022
| parent = 
| prevparent = 2.2.1214x
| prev = 2.3.136
| next = 2.3.200
| nextparent = 2.4.1
}}
<onlyinclude>
'''2.3.173''' is an update to the [[Minecraft Launcher|launcher]] released on May 11, 2022.

== Additions ==
* Added ability to "Copy" error code information with one click.

== Changes ==
* Enhance messaging around ensuring users are signed in to the Microsoft Store with the same account being used in the Launcher.
* Advanced setting option "Clean up cached account tokens" button now gives feedback if user click it so user know it was clicked.

== Fixes ==
* Fix to bug where user was unable to start one game while a different game was installing.
* "No Network Connection" & failed sign-in attempt prompt weren't being translated and now are (and a few other localization process fixes).
* Bug relating to failure to fetch user's Minecraft profile.
* Fixes to variety of other bugs, crashes & user issues.
* {{Bug|MCL-20088}} - Several mentionings of "Minecraft: Java Edition" within the new launcher strings are spelled inconsistently.
* {{Bug|MCL-21173}} - The term "roll out" is spelled as "rollout" within one of the new migration notification launcher strings.
* {{Bug|MCL-21190}} - There is a comma missing after the word "Sorry" within a launcher string used for a generic error message.
* {{Bug|MCL-21262}} - Launcher Crashes when clicking the "Browse" Button in the "Edit installation" menu.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.3.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.3.173]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.3.173]]
[[zh:启动器2.3.173]]