{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.1.13''xx''}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
|title=2.1.13''xx''
|image=
|edition=Launcher
|date=July 26, 2018
|type=Release
|prevparent=2.1.121x
|nextparent=2.1.143x
}}'''2.1.1351''' ([[wikipedia:Microsoft Windows|Windows]]), '''2.1.1350''' ([[wikipedia:macOS|macOS]]), or '''2.1.1349''' ([[wikipedia:Linux|Linux]]) is an update to the [[Minecraft launcher|launcher]] released on July 26, 2018.

== Additions ==
* When installing a ''Minecraft'' version, the launcher now checks if the computer meets the requirements. If it does not, a message is displayed.
* The launcher now shows the cause of a game crash.

== Fixes ==
* {{bug|MCL-5530}}: Minecraft LauncherMCL-5530"Download Server" link invalid for versions before 1.2.5.
* {{bug|MCL-5627}}: View crash report link is not working.
* {{bug|MCL-5634}}: Launcher not showing link to open crash report when closing log before crash.
* {{bug|MCL-5644}}: Wrong text encoding in error details.
* {{bug|MCL-8726}}: Minecraft game output log's "lines shown" option is apparently always set to All, even if you change it.
* {{bug|MCL-9318}}: Launcher uses incorrect link for Snapshot Server downloads.
* {{bug|MCL-9398}}: Game doesn't start with empty JVM arguments.
* {{bug|MCL-9498}}: <code>.dll</code> files don't exist error.
* {{bug|MCL-9564}}: Deleting profile on "Launch Options" tab does not deselect it on "News" tab.
* {{bug|MCL-9583}}: "Copy" string is non translatable.
* {{bug|MCL-9651}}: <code><nowiki>http://resources.download.minecraft.net/ad/</nowiki></code> urls give 403, while other directories and <code><nowiki>https://resources.download.minecraft.net/ad/</nowiki></code> urls succeed.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.1.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.1.13xx]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.1.13xx]]
[[lzh:啟者二點一點一三某某]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.1.13xx]]
[[zh:启动器2.1.13xx]]