{{Infobox version
|title=2.1.1493''x''
|vernum=2.1.1493x
|image=Launcher 2.1.14931.png
|edition=Launcher
|date=May 26, 2020
|prevparent=2.1.144xx
|nextparent=2.1.1494x
}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.1.1493''x''}}

'''2.1.14931''' ([[wikipedia:Microsoft Windows|Windows]] and [[MCD:Launcher|Dungeons]]), '''2.1.14932''' ([[wikipedia:macOS|macOS]]), or '''2.1.14930''' ([[wikipedia:Linux|Linux]]) is an update to the [[Minecraft launcher|launcher]] released on May 26, 2020.

== Changes ==
* Change Dungeons default product name to Minecraft Dungeons.
* Update path validation for setting Minecraft Dungeons install location and update default path.
* Display error message in Minecraft Dungeons install dialog if the launcher fails to fetch product manifest.
* Fix minor issue with polling dynamic content.
* Updated translations.
* Apply fix for always showing CTA button for Dungeons, both in Minecraft launcher and in Minecraft Dungeons launcher.
* Handle fetching errors that happen in the background smoother.
* Handle errors realated to invalid install locations for Minecraft Dungeons in install dialog.
* Remove Pause and Cancel buttons in progressbar when repairing Minecraft Dungeons.
* UI improvements and copy updates.

== Reupload ==
This version was reuploaded to hotfix {{bug|MCL-14107||"Launcher wipes entire install location when uninstalling"}}.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.1.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.1.1493x]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.1.1350x]]
[[lzh:啟者二點一點一四九三某]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.1.1493x]]
[[zh:启动器2.1.1493x]]