{{Infobox version
|title=2.1.5385/2.1.5386/2.1.5387
|vernum=2.1.538x
|image=Launcher 2.1.5387.png
|edition=Launcher
|date=June 25, 2019
|prevparent=2.1.523x
|nextparent=2.1.5410
}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.1.538''x''}}

'''2.1.5387''' (Windows), '''2.1.5386''' (macOS), or '''2.1.5385''' (Linux) is a major [[launcher]] version released on June 26, 2019, which fixed bugs.

== Changes ==
* Added more logging to track down {{Bug|MCL-11112}}: Launcher cannot establish connection to the internet.
* Added the Launcher version to the log file.
* Added more icons to choose for installations.
* Updated translations.
* Changed networking settings to try to alleviate {{Bug|MCL-11112}} – Launcher cannot establish connection to the internet.
* New drop down component to fix accessibility and selection problems.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed a news post being missing when in demo mode.
* Fixed the icons of default installations being wrong.
* Fixed installations added by third party software not showing up as selected on start.
* {{Bug|MCL-11002}} – Version list on the Play page does not sort according to settings.
* {{Bug|MCL-11003}} – The installation icons still use the old textures.
* {{Bug|MCL-11099}} – JVM Arguments not being applied properly.
* {{Bug|MCL-11101}} – Crash on Linux when system locale settings are not as expected.
* {{Bug|MCL-11137}} – Launcher blank after login on Linux.
* {{Bug|MCL-11145}} – Unable to play demo version.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.1.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.1.538x]]
[[lzh:啟者二點一點五三八某]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.1.538x]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.1.538x]]
[[zh:启动器2.1.538x]]