{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.2.25''xx''}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
| title = 2.2.25xx
| image = 
| edition = Launcher
| date = March 25, 2021
| parent = 
| prevparent = 2.2.231x
| prev = 
| next = 2.2.27xx
| nextparent = 2.2.310x
}}
'''2.2.2529''' ([[wikipedia:Microsoft Windows|Windows]]), '''2.2.2530''' ([[wikipedia:MacOS|macOS]]), or '''2.2.2528''' ([[wikipedia:Linux|Linux]]), is an update to the [[Minecraft launcher|launcher]] released on March 25, 2021 which adds <code>--disableGPU</code> and <code>--debugGPU</code> command line flags and makes managing the user's profile easier like changing name or skin.

== Additions ==
* Added <code>--disableGPU</code> and <code>--debugGPU</code> command line flags.
** <code>--disableGPU</code> disables GPU acceleration when running ''Minecraft''
** <code>--debugGPU</code> shows a window that gives information about the current display settings
* Added a Manage Profile menu item (if ''Minecraft: Java Edition'' is owned) that redirects to the [https://minecraft.net/profile user's profile page] at the Minecraft Website.
** It should also make it easier to manage the user's Minecraft Profile (such as changing name) if using a Microsoft Account.

== Changes ==
* MSA sign in window will now automatically be closed when the main launcher window is closed.
* Tweaked the search bar in installations to look the same as on other pages. The button to add a new installation has moved down a bit.
* Improved the login screen for languages that have long text strings.
* Highlighted notes are now only shown in a timed interval. "Two games, one Launcher" is thus no longer shown.
* Hidden at the end of the official release notes is a message reading "á”‘ Ì‡/ğ™¹ê–ğ™¹â„¸ Ì£ ê–á“­ á”‘âˆ·á’· ãƒªğ™¹â„¸ Ì£Â  âˆ´â‘á”‘â„¸ Ì£ â„¸ Ì£ â‘á’·|| á“­á’·á’·á’²", directly translating to "Axolotls are not what they seem".

== Fixes ==
* Fixed an issue where the launcher would lose track of the Dungeons installation and ask for a fresh installation when data already exists on the disk.
* Fixed an issue where the installation button for dungeons could become unresponsive.
* Fixed an issue where Pause and Cancel buttons may be missing after uninstalling and then reinstalling Minecraft Dungeons.
* {{Bug|MCL-17216}} - Window insides keeps shrinking now its transparent.
* {{Bug|MCL-16924}} - Page change animation is not played after switching between Settings tabs for the first time.
* {{Bug|MCL-17255}} - <code>.minecraft</code> can no longer be a symlink.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.2.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.2.25xx]]
[[lzh:å•Ÿè€…äºŒé»äºŒé»äºŒäº”æŸæŸ]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.2.25xx]]
[[zh:å¯åŠ¨å™¨2.2.25xx]]