{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.2.74''xx''}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
|title=2.2.74xx
|image=
|edition=Launcher
|date=November 12, 2021
|parent=
|prevparent=2.2.726x
|prev=
|next=
|nextparent=2.2.795x
}}<onlyinclude>
'''2.2.7447''' ({{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}), '''2.2.7450''' ({{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}, via the {{w|Microsoft Store}}/{{W|Xbox (app)|Xbox app}}), '''2.2.7449''' ({{w|macOS}}), or '''2.2.7448''' ({{w|Linux}}), is an update to the [[Minecraft Launcher|launcher]] released on November 12, 2021.

== Fixes ==
* Fixes to the new Launcher in particular available via the Microsoft Store, though some apply to all versions of the Launcher:
** Fixed crashing/BSOD issue on Windows 11.
** Fixed issue where Java game would fail to create worlds, or crash after starting.
** Fixed several issues relating to MSA sign-in success.
** Fixes to how settings were being saved.
** Reduced frequency and intensity of Upgrade messaging from previous Launcher.
** Fixed issue that was forcing users to re-sign in every time they loaded the new Launcher.
** Fixed bug that prevented new Launcher from being installed on drives other than C:
** Updated and added some new translations to the Launcher.
* {{Bug|MCL-19350}} - Alex's Default Skin Library Preview Shows an Inaccurate Version of Alex's Skin
* {{Bug|MCL-19814}} - Some buttons bring user to nonexistent pages/use outdated URLs
* {{Bug|MCL-19387}} - Important information about migrating accounts was not put on Crowdin for translation 

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.2.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.2.74xx]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.2.74xx]]
[[zh:启动器2.2.74xx]]