{{Infobox version
| title = 2.4.39
| image = Launcher 2.4.39.png
| edition = Launcher
| date = April 24, 2023
| prevparent = 2.3.651
| prev = 2.4.36
| next = 2.4.57
| nextparent = 2.5.2
}}<onlyinclude>

'''2.4.39''' is an update to the [[Minecraft Launcher|launcher]] released on April 24, 2023.

== Additions ==
* Added new accessibility settings.

== Changes ==
* Changed the way news articles are displayed.
* Improved the performance of the distribution pipeline.

== Fixes ==
* {{bug|MCL-22941}} - openjdk version 8 is incorrectly flagged as not being java 8.
* {{bug|MCL-23007}} - InstallationEntry buttons for Bedrock are not consistently aligned in the launcher.
* {{bug|MCL-23152}} - Screen elements for news articles have no alt text resulting in weird audio cues from the narrator.
* {{bug|MCL-23162}} - Redeem icons in the upsell sections for Minecraft Legends and Java Edition are narrated as "Logotype for Windows".
* {{bug|MCL-23171}} - Minecraft Launcher string used for the GamePassUpsell is missing a colon for the respective game names.
* {{bug|MCL-23177}} - Minecraft Launcher strings used for the GameIntroduction are missing a colon for the respective game names.
* {{bug|MCL-23182}} - Java installation icons have no alt text resulting in weird audio cues from the narrator.
* {{bug|MCL-23185}} - Screen element for the allay loading animation have no alt text resulting in a weird audio cue from the narrator.
* {{bug|MCL-23347}} - Minecraft for Windows promotional content contains grammatical error.
* {{bug|MCL-23353}} - Launcher does not show Patch Notes for Minecraft Legends.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.4.39]]
[[lzh:啟者二點四點三九]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.4.39]]
[[zh:启动器2.4.39]]