{{Infobox version
|title=2.1.2474/2.1.2473/2.1.2472
|vernum=2.1.247x
|edition=Launcher
|date=February 18, 2019
|prevparent=2.1.1462
|nextparent=2.1.248x
}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.1.247''x''}}{{More images}}
'''2.1.2474''' ({{w|Windows}}), '''2.1.2473''' ({{w|macOS}}), or '''2.1.2472''' ({{w|Linux}}) is a [[Minecraft launcher]] version released on February 18, 2019, which made changes and fixed bugs.

== Changes ==
* The default install name is now "Minecraft Launcher".
* Future Launcher updates will now be smaller to download and install faster.
* There is now a "Beta Versions" toggle in the Settings page to automatically get and run beta versions of the Launcher.
* The launcher will now display a notification of new launcher versions, even if they release while the launcher is already running.
* The progress bar now updates properly in the "Prepare" phase.
* Speed of the "Prepare" phase has been improved on multi-core machines.
* Sounds now work in Minecraft versions prior to 1.6.
* The log window has been reworked and should now update much faster.
* Esperanto is now a supported language.
* The version information now shows the correct values for the "Bootstrap" part on the version page.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed configurations not being sorted properly.
* Fixed launching games from Windows UNC paths not working.
* Fixed launching games from folders with symbolic links or junctions in their paths not working.
* Fixed the launcher log listing the user's access token.
* Fixed a bug that caused the launcher to soft-lock when there was no {{cd|launcher_profiles.json}} file on disk.
* {{bug|MCL-5436}} – Cannot launch directory junction profiles.
* {{bug|MCL-10280}} – Launcher can't save the game directory in profiles.
* {{bug|MCL-10479}} – Beta Launcher breaks on 404 Error for non-Mojang-hosted jars.
* {{bug|MCL-5569}} – Launcher does not open a window after being opened.
* {{bug|MCL-5642}} – UNC path game directory not supported.
* {{bug|MCL-8418}} – Won't launch minecraft on already existing {{cd|.minecraft}}.
* {{bug|MCL-10279}} – Launcher can't start if the {{cd|.minecraft}} folder in {{cd|%appdata%}}is a symlink.
* {{bug|MCL-10476}} – Can't use hard link in custom java executable path.
* {{bug|MCL-5451}} – Long text on gray buttons is not centered and moves when hovering over it.
* {{bug|MCL-10094}} – Profiles are in wrong order if there are more than ten entries in the list.
* {{bug|MCL-10135}} – Launcher does not sort profiles correctly.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|A101PooL5Do}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.1.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.1.247x]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.1.247x]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.1.247x]]
[[zh:启动器2.1.247x]]