{{Infobox version
|title=2.1.5239/2.1.5238/2.1.5236
|vernum=2.1.523x
|edition=Launcher
|image=Launcher 2.1.5239.png
|date=June 24, 2019
|prevparent=2.1.367x
|nextparent=2.1.538x
}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.1.523''x''}}

'''2.1.5239''' (Windows), '''2.1.5238''' (macOS) or '''2.1.5236''' (Linux) is a major [[launcher]] version released on June 24, 2019, which redesigned the look of the launcher.<ref>https://twitter.com/slicedlime/status/1143182134145945601</ref><ref>https://piston-meta.mojang.com/mc/launcher_beta_changelog.md</ref>

== Additions ==
;Layout
* The launcher now has a sidebar with tabs to select which game to play.
** Currently only {{el|je}} can be launched here.
** News tab is now located in this sidebar.
;Sections
* Added "patch notes" tab, which displays the changelog of the latest major version.
* Added the "Skins" tab, which does not yet allow you to change your skin. 
** Instead, it displays the text: "COMING SOON. Skins will be coming back to the Launcher soon! For now, go to minecraft.net to manage your skins".

== Changes ==
; Appearance
* Redesigned the launcher's style.
* Launcher now defaults to a size of 984×600px rather than 600×600px.
* Added "Java Edition" subtitle to game's logo to comply with post-1.12.2 logo
; Tabs
* Renamed "Launch options" tab to "Installations".
* Launcher versioning information is now located in the Settings menu instead of appearing when clicking the version number displayed in the bottom left.
; Translations
* Disabled unapproved languages.
* Updated translations and added many new ones.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.1.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.1.523x]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.1.523x]]
[[lzh:啟者二點一點五二三某]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.1.523x]]
[[zh:启动器2.1.523x]]