{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.2.1169''x''}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
|title=2.2.1169x
|image=
|edition=Launcher
|date=March 22, 2022
|parent=
|prevparent=2.2.1110x
|prev=
|next=
|nextparent=2.2.1214x
}}<onlyinclude>
'''2.2.11698''' ({{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}), '''2.2.11696''' ({{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}, via the {{w|Microsoft Store}}/{{W|Xbox (app)|Xbox app}}), '''2.2.11699''' ({{w|macOS}}), or '''2.2.11697''' ({{w|Linux}}), is an update to the [[Minecraft Launcher|launcher]] released on March 22, 2022.

== Additions ==
* Added improved timeout to login process to avoid forever spinning during login failure.

== Changes ==
* Some in-Launcher FAQ content had been pushed to Crowdin for localization.
* Various additional stability and reliability improvements.

== Fixes ==
* Fix to bug that left processes running after Launcher close, making Launcher unable to re-launch.
* Fix to Dungeons install dialog.
* Fixes to offline mode issues, including adding updated error/fail state during login attempt while offline.
* {{Bug|MCL-18076}} - Snapshots option disabled in patch notes menu.
* {{Bug|MCL-20088}} - Several mentionings of "Minecraft: Java Edition" within the new launcher strings are spelled inconsistently.
* {{Bug|MCL-20196}} - Cyrillic "Ө" and "Ү" characters are not supported by the pixelated font.
* {{Bug|MCL-20703}} - "Patch notes" in Java Edition has a lowercase 'n'.
* {{Bug|MCL-21080}} - Launcher does not allow quoted paths in java path.
* {{Bug|MCL-21094}} - Inconsistency in usage of hypen in "Third-party licenses".</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.2.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.2.1169x]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.2.1169x]]
[[zh:启动器2.2.1169x]]