{{Infobox version
|title=2.1.7658/2.1.7659/2.1.7660
|edition=Launcher
|type=Beta
|date=September 23, 2019
|parent=2.1.961x
|prevparent=2.1.596x
|prev=2.1.761x
|next=2.1.862x
|nextparent=2.1.1083x
}}{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.1.76''xx''}}<onlyinclude>

'''2.1.7658''' ([[wikipedia:Linux|Linux]]), '''2.1.7659''' ([[wikipedia:macOS|macOS]]), or '''2.1.7660''' ([[wikipedia:Microsoft Windows|Windows]]) is an update to the [[launcher]] released on September 23, 2019.<ref name=":1">https://piston-meta.mojang.com/mc/launcher_beta_changelog.md</ref>

== Additions ==
* Added screen reader support on Linux.

== Changes ==
* The launcher can now be used to play the ''Java Edition'' [[demo]] without a login.
* Improved accessibility and screen reader usability.
* Launcher window sizing and positioning has been overhauled on all platforms.
* Launcher logging improvements: launcher components append to, instead of overwriting, the log.
* Launcher can now resume interrupted downloads where applicable.
* Display scaling support has been improved on Windows.
* Launcher now has better desktop integration on Linux, and can use system dialogs (file browsing and similar).
* Linux packages no longer depend on Java 8, instead they require any suitable Java runtime environment. 
**A dependency on GTK 3 has also been added.
* Improved UI performance.

== Fixes ==
* {{Bug|MCL-11253}} - Long version names are cut off in the "Edit installation" dropdown
* {{Bug|MCL-11440}} - Can't edit or delete launcher profiles installed by mod installers
* {{Bug|MCL-11958}} - While in "Create new Installation" dialog, Version Picking Screen is Blank
* {{Bug|MCL-12035}} - The new Instalation panel doesn´t let me change the version
* {{Bug|MCL-12066}} - Minecraft Launcher Game Directory does not know how to cope with a linux file format
* {{Bug|MCL-12077}} - Cannot launch minecraft on latest beta launcher.
</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.1.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.1.76xx]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.1.76xx]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.1.76xx]]
[[zh:启动器2.1.76xx]]