{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.0.80''x''}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
|title=2.0.80''x''
|image=
|edition=Launcher
|type=Release
|date=February 9, 2017
|clientdl=[https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/launcher/win/7dbb83a4ffb116a3c37230ec727e30298990c365/Minecraft.exe .exe]
|prevparent=2.0.79x
|nextparent=2.0.83x
}}
'''2.0.806''' ([[wikipedia:Microsoft Windows|Windows]]) or '''2.0.805''' ([[wikipedia:macOS|macOS]]) is an update to the [[Minecraft launcher|launcher]] released on February 9, 2017.

== Fixes ==
* {{bug|MCL-1274}}: Logging in as guest.
* {{bug|MCL-1922}}: Uncommon unicode displayed as (?).
* {{bug|MCL-2182}}: Launcher doesn't update the download state of a Minecraft version.
* {{bug|MCL-2444}}: Changing profile runs on Event Dispatch Thread.
* {{bug|MCL-2743}}: Launcher opens too low (goes off screen).
* {{bug|MCL-2761}}: Long JVM arguments: Profile Editor spans multiple screens.
* {{bug|MCL-2820}}: Profile names have no length limitation, causing buttons to be below the "Play" button.
* {{bug|MCL-2872}}: Extreme lag / freeze when trying to select profile and MOJANG server are offline / no internet connection.
* {{bug|MCL-3262}}: Can't switch users in offline mode.
* {{bug|MCL-3306}}: Launcher can be made visible with a white screen using windows {{key|Alt+Space}} shortcuts.
* {{bug|MCL-3338}}: Visbility option has a tick box.
* {{bug|MCL-3559}}: Game Output scrolling bug.
* {{bug|MCL-3750}}: No indication when launcher fails to create directory.
* {{bug|MCL-3962}}: Launcher prints "<code>Completely ignored arguments: [--nativeLauncherVersion, ###]</code>".
* {{bug|MCL-4165}}: Pressing Play does not disable options to manipulate profile.
* {{bug|MCL-4454}}: Selecting from multiple profiles on same account always returns first from availableProfiles.
* {{bug|MCL-4563}}: Having _JAVA_OPTIONS set up to anything in Environment Variables makes the launcher crash.
* {{bug|MCL-4883}}: Outdated digital signature by Mojang for "<code>Minecraft.exe</code>".
* {{bug|MCL-5094}}: Launcher prints <code>java.io.IOException: Stream closed multiple times in Launcher Log after closing game</code>.
* {{bug|MCL-5646}}: Launcher stays on "Preparing..." after pressing "Play".

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.0.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.0.80x]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.0.80x]]
[[lzh:啟者二點〇點八〇某]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.0.80x]]
[[zh:启动器2.0.80x]]