{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.0.28''x''-stage}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
|title=2.0.28''x''-stage
|image=
|edition=Launcher
|date=November 2, 2016
|type=Beta
|parent=2.0.700
|prevparent=1.6.93
|prev=2.0.16x-stage
|next=2.0.3xx-stage
|nextparent=2.0.713
}}<onlyinclude>

'''2.0.282-stage''' ([[wikipedia:Microsoft Windows|Windows]]), or '''2.1.283-stage''' ([[wikipedia:macOS|macOS]]) is a version of the [[Minecraft launcher|launcher]].

== Additions ==
'''General'''
* Now supports running multiple instances of Minecraft at the same time.
* Can now be kept open while the game is running, allowing access to things like the help page.
* Now backs up <code>launcher_profiles.json</code> (profiles, logins, etc) before migrating settings to new launcher.
* Made launch options slightly smaller, so that more of them can fit in the same space.
* The button to add a new launch option is now at the top of the list.
* "Keep launcher open" and "Show game log" are now separate settings.

'''Windows'''
* Running the launcher from a non-C drive should now work.
** There are still lingering issues with running the launcher at all for some users.
* Clicking the <code>.exe</code> again while the game is open now brings back the launcher window instead of doing nothing.

'''Linux'''
* Linux support is still underway. We're getting very close - the launcher works, but we're not yet done with distribution.

== Fixes ==
'''General'''
* Fixed running modded versions.
* Resolution settings should now work properly.
* Fixed an issue where opening the game directory would give an error message even when it worked.
* Pressing "Del" in input fields no longer removes the rest of the line.
* Pressing tab on the news page no longer messes with the news carousel.
* Fixed a crash that would sometimes happen when the game closed.
* Selecting input with your mouse and hitting backspace on the keyboard should now properly delete the input.
* The version information page no longer selects all text when you click it.

'''Windows'''
* Fixed an issue with the self updater.
** This may mean that users have to redownload the new launcher to get updates.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.0.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.0.28x-stage]]
[[es:Lanzador 2.0.28x-stage]]
[[ja:ランチャー 2.0.28x-stage]]
[[lzh:啟者二點〇點二八某階]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.0.28x-stage]]
[[ru:2.0.28x-stage (лаунчер)]]
[[zh:启动器2.0.28x-stage]]