{{DISPLAYTITLE:Launcher 2.2.1214''x''}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox version
|title=2.2.1214x
|image=
|edition=Launcher
|date=March 31, 2022
|parent=
|prevparent=2.2.1169x
|prev=
|next=
|nextparent=2.3.115
}}
<onlyinclude>
'''2.2.12145''' ({{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}), '''2.2.12146''' ({{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}, via the {{w|Microsoft Store}}/{{W|Xbox (app)|Xbox app}}), '''2.2.12147''' ({{w|macOS}}), or '''2.2.12148''' ({{w|Linux}}), is an update to the [[Minecraft Launcher|launcher]] released on March 31, 2022.

'''2.2.12146''' and '''2.2.12148''' were released as non-beta versions on April 6, 2022.{{note|The date of the inspection, the actual release date could be earlier.}} '''2.2.12145''' and '''2.2.12147''' were never released as non-beta versions.

== Changes ==
* Added Bedrock Trial to the Launcher for users who do not own ''Bedrock Edition''.
* Under the hood updates to build distribution pipeline to make build delivery more reliable.
* Update to how new items tagged with multiple games shows up.
* Update to how new Launcher gathers entitlements to fix game entitlements not showing up correctly for some users, as well as improvements to how Launcher queries under the hood to access game entitlements.
* Work to make Launcher Patch Notes easier to find.
* Improved error messaging, both in general and relating to bug {{bug|MCL-11754}} ({{samp|Launcher.dll}} not present).

== Fixes ==
* Fix to bug relating to Play button display.
* Fixes to security & code issues to help create a more stable user experience across all versions of the Launcher.
* {{Bug|MCL-11754}} - {{samp|Launcher.dll}} not present.
* {{Bug|MCL-13539}} - Creates empty folder.
* {{Bug|MCL-17399}} - Launcher process does not quit and becomes unresponsive after closing game in macOS.
* {{Bug|MCL-19949}} - Skin preview doesn't show 2nd layer from the inside.
* {{Bug|MCL-20216}} - The minecraft launcher cannot connect to minecraft services.

== Notes ==
{{Notelist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Launcher versions|2.2.x}}

[[de:Launcher 2.2.1214x]]
[[pt:Launcher 2.2.1214x]]
[[zh:启动器2.2.1214x]]