{{Exclusive|Console}}
{{More images}}
{{Spoiler warning}}
<!-- README: This article relies too much on coordinates, and the writing style changes drastically throughout. There are also some links or images that could have been added. -->
In every [[Legacy Console Edition tutorial|tutorial world]] of the [[Legacy Console Edition]] between [[Xbox 360 Edition TU5|TU5]] and [[Xbox 360 Edition TU69|TU69]] there are 12 hidden [[chest]]s with [[music disc]]s in them, which are moved in every [[update]] that changes the tutorial world. There are also other secrets, such as hidden [[dungeon]]s and [[mineshaft]]s, as well as chests that contain other [[item]]s.

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU69|TU69]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''13'' - (X: 8, Y: 30, Z: 357) In the iceberg [[biome]] there are ruins of the [[Xbox 360 Edition TU46|TU46]] tutorial world. In the bed tutorial, under the launchpad, there is a chest.
# ''wait'' - (X: -111, Y: 57, Z: 123) Near the [[horse]] statue there is a large water pool. In the water pool, there is a chest.
# ''11'' - (X: 325, Y: 28, Z: -302) In the northeast corner of the map there is an under water cave. In the cave there is a shipwreck. The shipwreck has the chest.
# ''blocks'' - (X: -373, Y: 102, Z: 369) In the [[badlands]] ([[mesa]]) biome there is a tower. In the tower, there is a chest.
# ''stal'' - (X: -249, Y: 32, Z: -122) Near the [[enderman]] statue there is a series of caves. In the left and upmost cave, there is a water pool and a bat statue. The chest is next to the pool.
# ''ward'' - (X: 180, Y: 41, Z: -130) Near the [[guardian]] statue there is an underwater cave. In the cave, there is a chest.
# ''mall'' - (X: -71, Y: 100, Z: -285) In the cascade of houses on cliffs, in the one on top on the right set of houses, there is a giant [[painting]]. In the painting, there is a chest.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: -90, Y: 79, Z: 5) In the topmost of the witch houses there is a door. In the door, there is a chest.
# ''strad'' - (X: 90, Y: 63, Z: -242) Under the [[ghast]] statue there is a cave. In the cave there is a [[skeleton]] statue. In the skeleton statue's head, there is a chest.
# ''cat'' - (X: 392, Y: 98, Z: 57) Near the island with the wither statue, there is a tower. In the tower, there is a chest.
# ''chirp'' - (X: 342, Y: 3, Z: 356) In the [[savanna]] biome there is a mostly buried tower from the old tutorial world. It is the nether one from the TU46 update. The chest is exactly where 11 was on the last tutorial world (look below).
# ''far'' - (X: 213, Y: 24, Z: 153) Near the [[turtle]] statue there is an underwater cave. In that cave there are some more ruins. Follow the stone bricks to find a bridge with the chest on it.

=== [[Structure]]s ===
# {{EnvLink|Badlands mineshaft}}- (X: -305, Y: 60, Z: 298) In the [[badlands]] biome in the bottom left corner of the map. Note: This is the exact same [[mineshaft]] as in Seed 0 (Festive Mashup Pack, TU31 Tutorial World)
# Extra ''cat'' disc - (X: 111, Y: 112, Z: -350) In a village on top of a mountain with a zombie villager statue.
# Extra ''strad'' disc - (X: -72, Y: 66, Z: -337) At the very bottom of the village where the ''mall'' disc is found.
# Spider statue - (X: -118, Y: 61, Z: -92) Located in an underwater cave underneath the swamp village.
# Zombie statue - (X: -112, Y: 44, Z: -185) Located in an underwater cave near an underwater ravine. It's underneath the village where the ''mall'' disc is, with a cow statue nearby.
# Unknown shrine-like structure - (X: -176, Y: 45, Z: -166) - At the center of a cave system, which can be found by digging down underneath the area with the iron golem statue
# {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - (X: 27, Y: 28, Z: 45) The staircase entrance is in the deeper part of the world, underneath an ocean.
# There is a house in the iceberg biome. The house is actually located right above the TU46 tutorial world ruins, so you can use the house to look for the ruins. It is also possible to rid the ruins of water using sponges.

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU46|TU46]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''13'' - (X: -9, Y: 81, Z: -3) Enter the main tutorial up the first set of stairs and look to your right. The chest also contains a [[jukebox]] and 6 [[steak]]s.
# ''where are we now'' - (X: -164, Y: 137, Z: 39) Near the tutorial is a tower with a red flag on it, go to the top level.
# ''11'' - (X: 140, Y: 36, Z: -111) The ruined tower with overgrown vines has a [[netherrack]] cave at the bottom. Inside, go under the bridge and into the house of [[nether wart]].
# ''blocks'' - (X: 284 Y: 147, Z: -95) In the [[jungle]], go on top of the very big [[tree]] house.
# ''stal'' - (X: -237, Y: 97, Z: -338) At the top of an [[ice]] tower.
# ''ward'' - (X: -25, Y: 88, Z: -347) On top of the open variation of the [[shulker]] statue, in between some [[tree]]s, and in a small pit.
# ''mall'' - (X: 324, Y: 107, Z: -347) In the tallest [[brown mushroom]] house on [[Mushroom]] Island, which is top right on your map.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 112, Y: 80, Z: 291) In the [[desert]], there is a pyramid, the upper part contains a few chests, the middle of these chests has the disc.
# ''strad'' - (X: -241, Y: 31, Z: 329) Inside the [[ocean monument]] there is a pool, at the bottom of this pool is the disc.
# ''cat'' - (X: -295, Y: 110, Z: -42) In the Moss Stone village, inside the largest house and to your left.
# ''chirp'' - (X: 211, Y: 64, Z: 157) To the right hand side of the villager statue, there is a path leading to a campfire. Next to it is the chest.
# ''far'' - (X: 225, Y: 130, Z: -366) In the high up middle of a ruined tower, next to a tree.

=== [[Structure]]s ===
# In the [[beacon]] tutorial, there are [[dirt]] blocks under nine [[diamond block]]s. If you have an [[iron pickaxe]], you can break them - if not, you can break them with your hand, but it will take much longer.
<!-- It would be better if these next two things actually described the place, rather than just giving coordinates. -->
# {{EnvLink|Monster room|Zombie dungeon}} at (X: 135, Y: 53, Z: -7) in the [[cave]] containing the [[spider]] statue at (X: 97, Y: 62, Z: -41).
# {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} #1: (X: -236, Y: 94, Z: 203).
# {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} #2: (X: -130, Y: 49, Z: -119)
# {{EnvLink|Ocean Monument}} Entrance: (X: -280, Y: 64, Z: 198)
# Heads room: (X: -144, Y: 108, Z: 75)
# {{EnvLink|Stronghold}}: (X: 172, Y: 32, Z: 111)

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU31|TU31]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''where are we now'' - (X: 41, Y: 67, Z: 47) - After completing the basic miner's hut tutorial, go through the arch. It's in front of the fountain.
# ''stal'' - (X: 57, Y: 85, Z: -32) - Climb the tree with ladders to the east, then go from the roof to the clocktower, the chest with the disc is inside it.
# ''13'' - (X: 26, Y: 112, Z: 15) - Get into the ''A'' of the big ''[[Minecraft]]'' sign.
# ''mall'' - (X: 163, Y: 37, Z: 95) - Head south from the [[mesa]]. The chest containing the disc is on a secret passage in the middle of the water torus.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 326, Y: 79, Z: 180) - In the big house made of [[quartz]], [[stone bricks]], and [[hardened clay]], go through the front [[door]], go up the [[dark oak]] staircase to the 4th storey, turn left, an enter the door on the yellow wall. The chest containing the disc is under the [[trapdoor]] in the bath tub.
# ''cat'' - (X: 194, Y: 97, Z: 208) - In the [[sandstone]] building, go up a staircase, head to the coordinates, climb the tiny sandstone wall, jump down to the arch and turn around.
# ''11'' - (X: -5, Y: 65, Z: 245) - Go to the middle of the [[leaves]] maze.
# ''ward'' - (X: -69, Y: 77, Z: -78) - In the sandstone church, go to the side opposite to the entrance, climb the [[ladder]] on the middle pillar and jump across the window panes, the chest is behind some [[cobblestone wall]]s.
# ''far'' - (X: -172, Y: 122, Z: 141) - Climb up the tree with the parkour in the mega taiga. The chest also contains 4 minecarts.
# ''blocks'' - (X: -355, Y: 104, Z: -170) - Climb the mountain to get to a castle, when you are at the first arch, go ahead to the entrance, go right diagonally until you hit the corner, turn left, turn left again at the second entrance. Turn left before the first building and enter the double diagonal door. Go down at the piston door and the chest is to the right.
# ''strad'' - (X: 254, Y: 81, Z: -237) - Go in the [[red sandstone]] castle through the jungle [[wood planks]] bridge, climb to the highest point of the staircase to the left, turn around and look up.
# ''chirp'' - (X: 345, Y: 81, Z: -369) - It's in a cave in the island next to the mesa. The cave is in the middle of a flat area to the west.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Monster room|Zombie dungeon}} (contains no chests): (X: -39, Y: 27, Z: 17).
* {{EnvLink|End portal}}: (X: 13, Y: 29, Z: 27).
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}}: (X: -266, Y: 71, Z: -367).
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} chest - containing [[iron horse armor]]: (X: 394, Y: 15, Z: 279).
* [[Diamond ore]] blob: (X: 388, Y: 15, Z: 291).
* [[Cave spider]] [[monster Spawner|spawner]]: (X: 391, Y: 15, Z: 291).
* {{EnvLink|Desert pyramid}}: (X: 263, Y: 66, Z: -42).
* {{EnvLink|Monster room|Zombie dungeon}}: (X: 256, Y: 51, Z: -49).

=== Chests ===
* Chest with a [[diamond sword]] and [[Fortune]] III [[enchanted book]]: in the quartz enchanting building, climb the [[Bookshelf|bookshelves]]. The chest is in a corner. (X: 22, Y: 72, Z: -33).
* 26 diamond blocks: At the front of the sandstone mansion with the maze, mine the bottom blocks of the fence to find these. (X: 5, Y: 70, Z: 329).
* Chest with an [[empty map]], [[compass]], and [[clock]]: Climb up the lighthouse to the top and go down the short ladder to find another platform and this chest. (X:  -388, Y: 91, Z: -60).

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU19|TU19]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''cat'' - (X: 193, Y: 69, Z: -143) -  After completing the basic miner's hut tutorial, go through the arch to find it in the chest just next to the fountain in the advanced tutorial field.
# ''13'' - (X: 145, Y: 63, Z: -61) - From the advanced tutorial field, cross the stone bridge to the castle island. Head left and around the tree to the shore, then look under the bridge at its base to find the chest.
# ''ward'' - (X: 132, Y: 68, Z: -63) - From the island side of the bridge, head clockwise around the castle. Enter the doorway on your right and take the first right; the chest will be at the far end of this route in an enclosed pond area.
# ''11'' - (X: 108, Y: 93, Z: -93) - On a balcony in the main keep of the castle. Enter it by climbing the hill and stairs in the central courtyard, then climb the staircase to the right of the fireplace. Turn the corner and enter the second room on the right, then exit onto the balcony to find the chest.
# ''stal'' - (X: 130, Y: 59, Z: -182) - In a secret cavern hidden behind a waterfall, south of the docks in the tutorial zone that teach about [[boat]]s and [[fishing]].
# ''where are we now'' - (X: 185, Y: 66, Z: 187) - South of the bridge mentioned in the instructions for ''13'' is a desert village; the disc will be in a chest inside the sandstone tower.
# ''blocks'' - (X: -50, Y: 69, Z: 16) - In the village located west of the castle, in a chest inside the blacksmith building.
# ''chirp'' - (X: -282, Y: 75, Z: -99) - In a second castle located northwest of the village where ''blocks'' is found. Enter the castle via a door on the south side and enter the main stair hall. Go through the doors found underneath the stairs and into the back garden, then take the door to the left to enter a room with the disc in a chest.
# ''strad'' - (X: -269, Y: 91, Z: -140) - Found atop the second castle. Head to the opposite side of the castle from where ''chirp'' is found and look for the room with cyan [[carpet]]. Find the spiral staircase and head all the way to the top to find the chest.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: -135, Y: 68, Z: 88) - From the village where ''blocks'' was found, there will be a second village to the southwest through a valley. Look in the first building to the right to find it.
# ''far'' - (X: -203, Y: 82, Z: 330) - From the village where ''mellohi'' was found, head south to find an island with a replica of Stampy's Lovely World from YouTuber ''Stampylonghead''<nowiki/>'s Minecraft series. Head up to the very top of the ladder near the dock and inside, and in the room at the far end of the hall will be the chest with the disc in it.
# ''mall'' - (X: -194, Y: 115, Z: 339) - From the location of the ''far'' disc, take one of the stairs on either side of the room to find a ladder. Climb up them to enter a room with the disc's chest to your left.

=== Hidden structures ===
* Buildings and ships from stampylonghead's ''Minecraft Xbox'' series can be located on an island, around the southwest portion of said tutorial world.
* Several pocket caves illuminated by glowstone can be found buried underneath the castles.
* There is a Nether portal in the basement of the first castle.

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU14|TU14]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''13'' - (X: 48, Y: 81, Z: -97) - At the top of the stairs leading out of the starting area ('''middle''' of the map).
# ''cat'' - (X: -255, Y: 47, Z: -35) In a well structure in a pond ('''west''' of the starting area).
# ''mellohi'' - (X: -301, Y: 69, Z: 106) On top of a desert pyramid ('''southwest''' of the starting area).
# ''chirp'' - (X: -409, Y: 74, Z: 96) On top of the tower in a desert village ('''southwest''' of the starting area).
# ''blocks'' - (X: 383, Y: 63, Z: -337) In a blacksmith replica ('''northeast''' of the starting area).
# ''strad'' - (X: 0, Y: 51, Z: 344) In a shrine-like structure built into a jungle hill ('''south''' of the starting area).
# ''11'' -  (X: 367, Y: 75, Z: -57) - In a cave with [[web]]s and a spider monster spawner ('''east''' of the starting area).
# ''where are we now'' - (X: 210, Y: 71, Z: 93) Inside of a small abandoned house ('''southeast''' of the starting area).
# ''ward'' - (X: -15, Y: 63, Z: -371) - In the ruins in a swamp ('''north''' of the starting area).
# ''mall'' - (X: -164, Y: 88, Z: -273) - On the crow's nest on a wooden pirate ship ('''northwest''' of the starting area).
# ''far'' - (X: 26, Y: 61, Z: 241) In a jungle pyramid ('''south''' of the starting area).
# ''stal'' - (X: 285, Y: 82, Z: 103) Inside of a house on stilts located in front of a waterfall - this house is located just near the abandoned house where ''where are we now'' is found ('''southeast''' of the starting area).

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU12|TU12]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''13'' - (X: 48, Y: 81, Z: -97) - At the top of the stairs leading out of the starting area ('''middle''' of the map).
# ''cat'' - (X: -34, Y: 80, Z: -91) - In a cave under the starting town - pull a [[lever]] in one of the houses to reveal an entrance ('''middle''' of the map).
# ''mellohi'' - (X: -205, Y: 63, Z: -41) - In a cave filled with [[lava]] - pull the lever at the entrance to reveal stepping stones ('''west''' of the starting area).
# ''chirp'' - (X: -282, Y: 76, Z: 261) - In the top floor of the pyramid in the desert - find a lever, then a secret door in the maze inside ('''southwest''' of the starting area).
# ''blocks'' - (X: 0, Y: 54, Z: 153) - In a cave under a small building in a jungle lake ('''south''' of the starting area).
# ''strad'' - (X: 294, Y: 68, Z: 235) - In an [[igloo]] in the taiga ('''southeast''' of the starting area).
# ''11'' - (X: 367, Y: 75, Z: -57) - In a cave with [[web]]s and a spider monster spawner ('''east''' of the starting area).
# ''where are we now'' - (X: 253, Y: 91, Z: -185) - At the top of a stone tower with redstone circuitry in it ('''east''' of the starting area).
# ''ward'' - (X: -15, Y: 63, Z: -371) - In the ruins in the swamp ('''north''' of the starting area).
# ''mall'' - (X: -164, Y: 88, Z: -273) - On the crow's nest on a wooden pirate ship ('''northwest''' of the starting area).
# ''far'' - (X: -401, Y: 77, Z: -232) - There's a ladder on the [[giant mushroom]] to climb to the top ('''west/northwest''' of starting area).
# ''stal'' - (x: 115, Y: 57, z: 107) [Nether] - In a [[nether fortress]] in front of a blaze spawner (the '''Nether''' portal is in the giant Minecraft logo - '''middle''' of the map).

=== Structures and blocks ===
* The Easter Egg "Tower of Pimps" from Achievement Hunter's ''Let's Play Minecraft'' series, is located in the pyramid in the desert. (X: -282, Y: 85, Z: 262)
* There is a Nether portal in the Minecraft logo.
* On the Minecraft logo there is a plentiful supply of torches useful for lighting up a big area.
* There is a Stronghold in the jungle biome. End portal at (X: 16, Y: 31, Z: 206)

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU9|TU9]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''13'' - (X: 106, Y: 74, Z: 165) On your way to the mansion there is a chest inside the abandoned mining shelter which contains a jukebox, a bow with Flame enchantment, and 20 arrows.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 86, Y: 72, Z: 166) Through the shelter is a garden with crossed walkways. Dig down in the middle of the cross of cobblestone to find a chest which contains another iron sword but this time with Smite V enchantment.
# ''mall'' - (X: 102, Y: 59, Z: 269) After that, walk left into a [[desert]] and there will be a [[minecart]]. Jump into it and ride it to the other end. Then jump off and go inside the desert pyramid and you will find the chest containing an iron sword with Looting III enchantment.
# ''11'' - (X: 64, Y: 92, Z: 166) Climb up the ladders or vines on the side of the garden wall or the back of the castle. Turn left and get onto the roof of the castle. On the top of the glass dome will be a chest along with a bow with Power V enchantment.
# ''ward'' - (X: 196, Y: 77, Z: 71) Once you climb up the ladders turn right then jump of the wall to the left. Walk around the spawn point until you find a medieval tower in the distance. On the top of the tower is a chest also containing an iron pickaxe with Unbreaking III enchantment.
# ''blocks'' - (X: 65, Y: 70, Z: 177) Inside the castle, walk into the first corridor to your right that has stairs in it. Pull the lever to your right to make a walkway across the lava and there is your chest containing an iron helmet with Respiration III enchantment.
# ''chirp'' - (X: 41, Y: 76, Z: 153) In the second room to the right will be a brewing tutorial. You will make a Potion of Fire Resistance using water bottles, then [[nether wart]], and at last [[magma cream]]. This will create a few fire resistance potions. Drink it and walk through the lava in the room. Through the lava is a chest in a small room which contains an iron chestplate with Fire Protection V enchantment.
# ''stal'' - (x: 59, y: 60, z: 27) Walk to the main hallway and travel upstairs. Flip the lever and you'll hear three musical notes play. That lever has revealed a secret room. The painting that you saw when you came up the stairs has the entrance to the secret room behind it. There is a nether portal in that room. Step in it. From your spawn point in the Nether, head directly forwards to the Nether Fortress. In there turn to your second right, down there is the chest which contains flint and steel along with a pair of iron leggings with Blast Protection IV enchantment.
# ''cat'' - (X: -42, Y: 56, Z: 247) Walk straight forward in the [[swamp]] to find a house. A chest is beneath it. Walk inside the house and open the trapdoor. Go down the ladder and there is the chest which contains a pair of iron boots with Feather Falling IV enchantment.
# ''far'' - (X: -42, Y: 58, Z: 94) From the swamp house, walk right and you will find a pond with structure submerged in it. It has a trapdoor surrounded by glass that leads to the chest also containing an iron shovel with Efficiency V enchantment.
# ''strad'' - (X: 28, Y: 60, Z: 8) From the abandoned mining shelter walk in the mansion courtyard and travel north through the farm(according to the map). Past the farm walk north/northwestward until you find a set of five pillars with a staircase leading downward. In the underground dwelling there is a chest containing a disc and an iron axe with Fortune III enchantment.
# ''where are we now'' - (X: 374, Y: 64, Z: -146) Located at a small mushroom island to the east in a chest that contains the disc and a [[diamond pickaxe]] with Silk Touch enchantment.

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU7|TU7]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

# ''13'' - (X: 106, Y: 74, Z: 165) On your way to the mansion there is a chest inside the abandoned mining shelter which contains a jukebox, a bow with Flame enchantment, and 20 arrows.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 64, Y: 82, Z: 182) In the second floor of the mansion. It's behind a painting in the bedroom to the right.
# ''mall'' - (X: 102, Y: 59, Z: 269) After that, walk left into a [[desert]] and there will be a [[minecart]]. Jump into it and ride it to the other end. Then jump off and go inside the desert pyramid and you will find the chest.
# ''11'' - (X: 104, Y: 80, Z: 166) On top of the abandoned mining shelter.
# ''ward'' - (X: 49, Y: 79, Z: 182) In the enchanting room of the mansion (first room on the left), walk to the far right side of the room, climb up the bookshelf staircase and turn around.
# ''blocks'' - (X: 65, Y: 70, Z: 177) Inside the castle, walk into the first corridor to your right that has stairs in it. Pull the lever to your right to make a walkway across the lava and there is your chest containing an iron helmet with Respiration III enchantment.
# ''chirp'' - (X: 41, Y: 76, Z: 153) In the second room to the right will be a brewing tutorial. You will make a Potion of Fire Resistance using water bottles, then [[nether wart]], and at last [[magma cream]]. This will create a few fire resistance potions. Drink it and walk through the lava in the room. Through the lava is a chest in a small room.
# ''stal'' - (x: -117, y: 74, z: -72) Walk to the main hallway and travel upstairs. Flip the lever and you'll hear three musical notes play. That lever has revealed a secret room. The painting that you saw when you came up the stairs has the entrance to the secret room behind it. There is a nether portal in that room. Step in it. From your spawn point in the Nether, head directly forwards to the Nether Fortress. In there turn to your second right, down there is a chest.
# ''cat'' - (X: -42, Y: 56, Z: 247) Walk straight forward in the [[swamp]] to find a house. A chest is beneath it. Walk inside the house and open the trapdoor. Go down the ladder and there is the chest which contains an pair of iron boots with Feather Falling IV enchantment.
# ''far'' - (X: -45, Y: 63, Z: 249) Located at the same swamp house where ''cat'' is found. Look behind the chimney to find the music disc along with an iron shovel with Efficiency V enchantment.
# ''strad'' - (X: 27, Y: 84, Z: 85) On top of a tree with a ladder on it.
# ''where are we now'' - (X: 374, Y: 64, Z: -146) Located at a small mushroom island to the east in a chest.

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU5|TU5]] ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
* ''The following instructions assume you head to the given [[coordinates]] first.''

'''WARNING: IF YOU EXIT THE TUTORIAL BEFORE FINDING THE DISCS, SOME OF THE DISCS MAY DISAPPEAR. DO THIS IN ONE GO.'''

# ''13'' - (X: -132, Y: 66, Z: -48) It's located at the entrance of the first village. The chest also contains a jukebox, a bow, and 20 arrows.
# ''cat'' - (X: -134, Y: 70, Z: -45) It is inside a glass window on the right side of the entrance wall. The chest also contains a stone sword.
#''strad'' - (X: -147, Y: 89, Z: -33) It's located under the ''A'' in the ''Minecraft'' sign. The chest also contains a full set of diamond armor.
# ''chirp'' - (X: -195, Y: 56, Z: -36) It's located in a hidden room underneath the well of the first village. The chest also contains a full set of gold armor.
# ''11'' - (X: -189, Y: 74, Z: 39) On top of the tower of the first village. The chest also contains another diamond shovel.
# ''far'' - (X: -152, Y: 78, Z: -230) On top of a tower with a blue flag at a second village. The chest also contains an iron sword.
# ''blocks'' - (X: 11, Y: 88, Z: -22) Behind the spawn area, there is a large fortress built into a cliff wall. From the entrance to the fortress, make a right and head up the stairs. The chest should be next to the bed containing the disc and a full set of iron armor.
# ''ward'' - (X: 36, Y: 82, Z: -61) From the entrance to the fortress, make a left, then a right. Go into the small doorway on the right of the staircase. The chest also contains a diamond shovel.
# ''stal'' - (X: 40, Y: 114, Z: -100) - It's located on top of a mountain on a thin piece of overhanging dirt. The chest also contains a diamond sword.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 166, Y: 85, Z: -164) - It's located in the large tree with a ladder on it. The chest also contains a diamond axe.
# ''mall'' - (X: 94, Y: 74, Z: 295) On top of a tower with a red flag at a third village. The chest also contains a diamond shovel.
# ''where are we now'' - (X: 267, Y: 64, Z: 329) Outside of the third village, there is a dock with a single boat in the water. Take the boat out and go straight ahead and you'll reach an island. The chest also contains a diamond pickaxe.

=== Hidden structures ===
* In the large fortress which engages into the cliff wall there is a corridor where you can hear the sound of the Nether. In the ceiling should be a lever to open a piston door to expose the Nether portal.
* The hill where the large fortress is built is joined to a second hill. Deep under this second hill is a massive [[stronghold]] connected to caverns that lead to the large canyon. It is possible to access it from the canyon, but requires quite a bit of work. The [[stronghold]] contains at least 3 chests. One in the upper chamber, and two deep below in the library. End Portal Frame at X: -338, Y: 21, Z: 306.

== [[Xbox 360 Edition TU3|TU3]] ==
=== Hidden structures ===
* There were many secret hidden structures, such as random "caves" with torches all around the walls and hidden villages. One such cave was located directly below the floor of the library in the castle; revealed by digging through two wooden planks. Digging through the wall revealed random redstone placement.
* Dungeons could be found in the world. Although the player must manually search for them, one of the dungeons had a gravel "x" in which if they dug down from the center they would fall into. Continuing to dig downwards would eventually reveal a small X tunnel with 8 exposed diamond ores.
* Like the original PC version of ''Minecraft'', the Xbox 360 Tutorial Mode world has four layers of [[bedrock]]; however, other worlds generated in the ''Xbox 360 Edition'' only have two layers.
* In the biggest house of the first village, one of the floor blocks hid a ladder down into the ocean.
* Hidden in the ''Minecraft'' logo was a portal to [[the Nether]].
* By the lighthouse, there was a dungeon.
* Beside the castle, underwater, there was a 2×2 hole with glowstone lighting the inside that leads down to a large chest containing all possible diamond tools and armor.
* A village was always generated in the opposite way of the Tutorial village.

== See also ==
* [[Legacy Console Edition tutorial/Coordinates]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Legacy Console Edition}}
{{Navbox Minecraft|General}}

__FORCETOC__

[[es:Tutorial de Legacy Console Edition/Ubicaciones]]