{{for}}
{{exclusive|java}}
{{Infobox entity
| image = blank.png
| health = None
| behavior = None
| size = None
}}
'''Markers''' are [[Entity|entities]] intended for use in [[data pack]]s and map-making. They can only be created with the {{cmd|summon}} command. 

== Behavior ==
Markers are intended to have minimal behavior. Markers do not move, do not take damage, and cannot be given status effects. Markers do not make sounds, but [[Sculk Sensor|sculk sensors]] can trigger when they are killed. They cannot support passengers (even when summoned with a Passengers tag, the passengers are not created).

Markers do not cause any updates. Markers only exist on the server side,<ref>{{snap|21w15a}}</ref> so they do not render. Using the [[Debug screen#More debug-keys|debug key combination]] {{Key|F3+B}}, which normally draws the hitboxes of all visible entities, does not show a hitbox for a marker. Using {{Key|F3+I}} while aiming at a marker does not copy the entity data to the clipboard. They do not count toward the E-value (total amount of entities) listed on the [[debug screen]]. Markers do not obstruct the placement of blocks, nor do they push players or other entities away from their own position. Markers can be saved in structures via [[structure block]]s.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|firstcolumnname=Entity
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Marker
|nameid=marker
|foot=1|translationkey=entity.minecraft.marker}}

=== Entity data ===
{{see also|Entity format}}
Markers have entity data associated with them that contain various properties of the [[entity]].

<section begin="entity data"/><div class="treeview" style="margin-top: 0;">
* {{nbt|compound}} Entity data
** {{nbt inherit/entity}}
</div><section end="entity data"/>

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||August 25, 2014|link={{tweet|SeargeDP|503950854265634817}}|Searge "definitely [hints] at a marker entity in the future".}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.17|dev=21w15a|Added markers.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list|projects=MC}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==
* [[Display entity]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox entities|Other}}

[[de:Marker]]
[[fr:Repère]]
[[ja:マーカー]]
[[lzh:標]]
[[pt:Marcador]]
[[ru:Метка]]
[[zh:标记]]