{{Exclusive|Console|Bedrock|New3DS}}
{{Work in progress}}
{{Msgbox
| title = Note:
| text = This page is currently a work in progress, so other structures and coordinates are still being added.
}}

In every [[mash-up pack]] of the [[Legacy Console Edition]] (excluding Mass Effect), there are 12 hidden chests with [[music disc]]s in them. There are also other secrets, such as hidden [[Monster Room|dungeon]]s and [[mineshaft]]s, as well as chests that contain other items.

== Toy Story Mash-up pack ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''strad'' - (X: -182, Y: 121, Z: -339) On top of the dresser in Andy's room (from the first movie).
# ''stal'' - (X: -348, Y: 104, Z: -297) In a secret room in Sid's closet; can be accessed by collecting three items and putting them in a hopper.
# ''ward'' - (X: -187, Y: 122, Z: -151) In Andy's house (from the second movie), on the top shelf where Wheezy is.
# ''mall'' - (X: -419, Y: 81, Z: -71) In a secret room next to the computer in Bonnie's house, accessed by pressing two specific buttons on the keyboard.
# ''cat'' - (X: 432, Y: 74, Z: -374) Inside of the claw machine in Pizza Planet; the entrance is opened by using a fishing rod to get a villager to stand on pressure plates.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 407, Y: 24, Z: 133) Inside of an arcade machine at Al's Toy Barn, at the other side of a lava parkour.
# ''11'' - (X: 323, Y: 64, Z: 389) Inside of the claw in the dump.
# ''chirp'' - (X: 61, Y: 217, Z: 396) In the record player in Al's hotel room, which can be found by turning an arrow in an item frame.
# ''blocks'' - (X: -20, Y: 95, Z: -170) Inside of the vending machine in the daycare.
# ''13'' - (X: -75, Y: 138, Z: 283) On top of a merry-go-round.
# ''far'' - (X: -210, Y: 68, Z: 298) In a secret room that can be accessed by shooting two buttons with a bow in a carnival game.
# ''wait'' - (X: -359, Y: 70, Z: 95) In a pinball machine in the antique shop (from the fourth movie).

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - Inside an arcade machine in the Pizza Planet restaurant.
* {{EnvLink|End portal}} - (X: 421, Y: 23, Z: 62) Somewhere in the arcade game where the ''mellohi'' disc is found.

== Steven Universe Mash-up pack ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''mall'' - (X: -150, Y: 62, Z: 334) Inside of a pile of random items in the beach house.
# ''chirp'' - (X: -349, Y: 73, Z: -216) Can be found by finding multiple secret rooms in a lava temple.
# ''ward'' - (X: -466, Y: 204, Z: -432) On top of a spiral temple built into a giant floating island.
# ''cat'' - (X: 200, Y: 40, Z: -165) Located underground in an area of the map built entirely out of andesite.
# ''strad'' - (X: 294, Y: 13, Z: -324) Located deep underneath an upside-down pyramid in a strawberry field; to get the disc, complete the numerous puzzles in the halls of the pyramid.
# ''far'' - (X: -136, Y: 74, Z: -109) In the Nether; on the throne of a yellow room, located at the top of a staircase the end of a maze.
# ''13'' - (X: 284, Y: 85, Z: 233) In the top room of a pyramid in the desert; complete the puzzles inside to get to the disc.
# ''stal'' - (X: 346, Y: 106, Z: 387) At the edge of a cliff on an island.
# ''wait'' - (X: -421, Y: 35, Z: 447) In an underwater temple; the chest is inside of an hourglass structure. It is accessed when a clock is collected from a chest (however the temple may fill with water depending on which chest you get the clock from).
# ''11'' - (X: 101, Y: 68, Z: 49) Inside of a ship-like building.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: -76, Y: 108, Z: -201) In a cave built into a massive cliff; there is a button next to it that makes armor stands appear.
# ''blocks'' - (X: 2, Y: 166, Z: 445) Located on a floating cloud-like area, on of a set of stairs.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - (X: 110, Y: 6, Z: 86) In the ship-like building where the ''11'' disc is, there are pressure plates that open the floor, which will drop the player into a cave. In the cave is a stronghold, however the end portal isn't in the room it normally is.
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - (X: 311, Y: 59, Z: 28) Located inside of a squid-looking structure in the ocean, revealed by pressing a button to make a sand platform fall.

== The Nightmare Before Christmas Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''mall'' - Go inside Finkelstein's Lab in Halloween Town, then go to the basement and build the mobs.
# ''chirp'' - In an underground cave with trees; is accessed at the end of a very long series of puzzles (located in the basement of the vampire-shaped house in Halloween Town).
# ''blocks'' - In the topmost room of Jack Skellington's house.
# ''wait'' - On top of a curled hill, in the snowy variant of Halloween Town.
# ''mellohi'' -
# ''strad'' - This tree with Easter Egg.
# ''stal'' -
# ''cat'' -
# ''ward'' -
# ''far'' -
# ''13'' - Inside of a train in Christmas Town.
# ''11'' - In the Nether; in the center of a swirl-like area, hidden behind a piston.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Woodland mansion}} - From the location of the ''chirp'' disc, there is a path leading to an underground mansion.
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - Inside of the pipe in Oogie Boogie's house.
* {{EnvLink|Ocean monument}} - Inside the Halloween Town Lake.

== Pirates Of The Caribbean Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''mall'' - (X: 116, Y: 86, Z: 38) In the sewer of the Port Royal prison (the place you spawn), at the top of a timed parkour.
# ''blocks'' - (X: 148, Y: 54, Z: -132) Underneath a small island, in a hidden room which can be opened by putting 70 sugar in a hopper (those can be found around the room).
# ''chirp'' -
# ''stal'' -
# ''wait'' -
# ''ward'' -
# ''11'' -
# ''far'' - (X: -379, Y: 66, Z: 63) In a hidden basement in a house in the swamp; can be opened by pulling a series of levers.
# ''cat'' - (X: -330, Y: 69, Z: -158) In a fish-catching net hanging from a fallen tree on Cannibal Island.
# ''strad'' - (X: 102, Y: 40, Z: 2) Inside of Davy Jones' ship, located in the Nether.
# ''13'' -
# ''mellohi'' - (X: -265, Y: 131, Z: 270) Located in a room in the topmost shipwreck on Shipwreck Island.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|End portal}} #1 - (X: 106, Y: 49, Z: -3) In the Port Royal prison sewer, under the water, there is a hole in the wall. Behind this hole is a very large stronghold. The normal end portal room is there.
* {{EnvLink|End portal}} #2 - (X: -180, Y: 41, Z: -298) In the Devil's triangle (the dark area of the map with the giant cloud above it), there is a shipwreck under the water. Under this shipwreck's trapdoor is a hole with an end portal inside.
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - (X: -23, Y: 76, Z: 369) In the mouth of a kraken, at the south edge of the map.
* {{EnvLink|Woodland mansion}} - (X: -217, Y: 86, Z: -169) There's an underground mansion under Cannibal Island.
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} - (X: -207, Y: 65, Z: 237) Hidden in some leaves just outside the shipwreck island, there's a ladder leading down into a mineshaft.

== Egyptian Mythology Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''blocks'' -
# ''strad'' -
# ''far'' -
# ''mall'' -
# ''13'' - In a big mountain at the center of the map, in a giant room with loot, statues and a table.
# ''stal'' - In a tomb filled with loot built into the big mountain at the center of the map.
# ''chirp'' - Located in an underground area with an Anubis statue, at the end of a series of puzzles in the large-sized pyramid.
# ''cat'' - Inside of a room with a coffin in water, at the end of a parkour in the medium-sized pyramid.
# ''mellohi'' - In the smallest pyramid, inside of a hole (rather than the normal entrance) under a pit of sand with monsters inside.
# ''ward'' - In a tomb hidden in some mountains on one of the edges of the map.
# ''11'' - In the Nether; inside of the mouth of a snake that you can see as you sail across the water.
# ''wait'' - On top of a tower at the top north of the map.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - There is a stronghold inside of the middle-sized pyramid.
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - In a random temple, there is a cave leading to a big room with a boat with the portal behind it.
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} #1 - There is a mineshaft in the temple where the nether portal is.
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} #2 - There's a mineshaft just near the location of the ''ward'' disc.
* {{EnvLink|Woodland mansion}} - At the southeast corner of the map, there is a flooded woodland mansion with a massive hole in it.

== Norse Mythology Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''far'' - Behind a door in the lower area of an ice palace; revealed by lighting shrine-like structures on fire (they have to be made of quartz, not end stone).
# ''strad'' - In a temple in the mega taiga, at the center of a maze.
# ''mall'' - In a house in a village, behind a counter.
# ''cat'' - On a pirate ship.
# ''ward'' - In a temple hidden under trees in the jungle; the chest is revealed by stepping on a pressure plate at the bottom of a very large tree.
# ''11'' - In the Nether; under the leg of a statue.
# ''stal'' - Perched on a rock in a giant dimly lit cave, can be found by going through a normal-looking ravine.
# ''blocks'' -
# ''wait'' -
# ''mellohi'' - Inside of a sunken ship.
# ''chirp'' - Underneath a giant floating castle; it's in the mouth of a dog statue, which can be found by digging through gravel in one of the many caves under the castle.
# ''13'' - In the giant floating castle; there's a secret room that is opened once two buttons are pressed on top of two towers.
=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - Inside of a giant crater filled with snow.
* {{EnvLink|Woodland mansion}} - There's an underground woodland mansion under the big tree.

== Adventure Time Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''13'' - (X: 54, Y: 122, Z: -77) On the boat area of the treehouse at spawn.
# ''cat'' - (X: 78, Y: 78, Z: -193) Down the stairs in the castle in the ice part of the map, inside of a room with bookshelves and armor stands.
# ''ward'' - (X: 160, Y: 32, Z: -319) In a room at the end of a cavern inside of a giant crater up north on the map. Zombies and skeletons will spawn due to a tripwire in the room.
# ''mall'' - (X: -116, Y: 59, Z: -344) In the upstairs closet of a small house in a cave.
# ''11'' - (X: -81, Y: 70, Z: 37) In the Nether; follow the granite path from the area you spawn. It will lead you to a small hut where the chest is.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: -203, Y: 29, Z: 118) In the basement of the Fire Kingdom (the area with the volcano-shaped castle), in a big room with a 
# ''wait'' - (X: -235, Y: 38, Z: -10) Inside of a giant ruined city in a huge cave; there is a trapdoor somewhere in the plains with a ladder that leads you down there.
# ''stal'' - (X: -28, Y: 10, Z: 285) In a small workspace area deep underneath a factory in the desert; ride the minecart track to the right at the entrance to get there.
# ''far'' - (X: -18, Y: 20, Z: 81) In the Slime Kingdom (the huge underground area made of slime just outside the factory); in one of the buildings, there is a room filled with tanks. One of the tanks has the chest.
# ''chirp'' - (X: -396, Y: 53, Z: 223) In the basement of a log-shaped house on an island.
# ''strad'' - (X: 66, Y: 157, Z: 350) At the top of a giant dome tower on an island at the south edge of the map.
# ''blocks'' - (X: -158, Y: 159, Z: -194) In the giant cloud-like structure in the Candy Kingdom (the big village surrounded by lava, just next to the treehouse at spawn).

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - (X: -92, Y: 17, Z: 180) Located underneath the Fire Kingdom. The stronghold is ''very'' small, but the end portal room is there.
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - (X: -116, Y: 51, Z: -337) Inside of the cave where the house is.
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} #1 - (X: 320, Y: 41, Z: -239) Located in an exposed ravine at the top right corner of the map.
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} #2 - (X: 214, Y: 17, Z: -42) Located under a roofed forest.
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} #3 - (X: -201, Y: 17, Z: 55) Located under the spiral lake. This mineshaft is generated the exact same as the second one.
* {{EnvLink|Mineshaft}} #4 - (X: 230, Y: 32, Z: 371) Located between a village and an island on the southeast corner of the map.

== Fallout Mash-up pack ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''13'' - Around the back of the Red Rocket truck stop at spawn, inside a cave full of junk dug into the hillside.
# ''cat'' - In the Overseer's Office overlooking the main atrium of one of the vaults. The vault entrance is marked with a wooden doorway in the side of a mountain in the desert area behind spawn.
# ''blocks'' - In front of a reactor at the end of a vault. The vault's entrance is hidden in a cave in the side of a mountain (the entrance is marked with dirt paths); roughly between the junk town and a random car in the red desert.
# ''mellohi'' - In a giant vault with a large sandstone town in front of it. Hidden behind an item frame combination lock with two item frames with arrows in them. Both arrows have to be pointing down.
# ''chirp'' - In one of the cryopods at the end of Vault 101, located behind the ruined town (Sanctuary Hills) near spawn.
# ''strad'' - On top of the north-eastern giant satellite dish in an array of four large dishes (Revere Satellite Array). There is an armor stand with diamond armor next to the chest.
# ''ward'' - Behind an iron door on the top part of a very tall tower (Trinity Tower), which is nearby the satellite dishes.
# ''mall'' - Located in a building found going left from the Washington monument or right facing away from the capitol building - the path towards it is marked by small trees. It is found in a basement that is revealed by pulling two levers hidden in the building.
# ''11'' - Find small stone wall near the water, just behind the Trinity Tower (the very tall tower nearby the satellite dishes). Underwater is a sewer pipe that leads to a large series of tunnels - follow them until you reach a large secret location (The Institute). The disc is on the third floor of the only building without a bridge connecting it to the central spiral staircase, next to a balcony.
# ''stal'' - Behind green Nuka Cola boxes in the basement underneath the pentagon shaped pentagon building (The Citadel). A secret lever will open the way through the boxes.
# ''far'' - In double chest in a large dirt dome-like room at the end of a long sandstone temple dug into a mountainside.
# ''wait'' - At the very front balcony of a giant blimp labeled 'PRYDWEN'. The balcony is located the top floor of the structure. You can reach the blimp via the roof of the Capitol Building in front of it.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Dungeon}} - Somewhere in the mountain where Vault 101 is.
* {{EnvLink|Nether Portal}} - Nearby spawn, off to the side of Sanctuary Hills - roughly to the left of the end of the river there. Marked by a stone obelisk.

== Chinese Mythology Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''11'' - In the attic of a house in the starting village.
# ''ward'' -
# ''strad'' -
# ''far'' -
# ''cat'' - Inside of a hole in the Great Wall Of China, just to the left of the giant panda statue.
# ''wait'' -
# ''mellohi'' - Inside of a sand structure in the desert, hidden behind a slab.
# ''chirp'' - In the area with the cherry tree.
# ''mall'' - In a big temple in a floating village on a cloud, revealed by putting water in two cauldrons.
# ''stal'' - On top of a tower in a village; the tower is locked with an iron door, which can be opened with a lever somewhere in the same village.
# ''13'' - Inside of a house on a small island.
# ''blocks'' - In the mouth of a red dragon, under its tongue.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - Located in a cave just underneath a lake. The stronghold is generated very messily and hardly has any walls or floor.

== Super Mario Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''cat'' - At the center of a classic SMB-styled castle filled with lava.
# ''13'' - Inside of a yellow-roofed Toad House; there are three chests inside. The one on the right has the disc.
# ''ward'' - Behind one of the paintings in Peach's Castle.
# ''11'' - In a cave filled with lava, in a mountain behind a village on an island.
# ''mellohi'' - Located behind a Ghost House, which can be only be accessed by going through the puzzles inside.
# ''mall'' - Inside of a sunken ship; the room with the disc can only be accessed via a yellow pipe nearby.
# ''chirp'' - Behind a giant locked door (styled like SMB3), which can be opened via a lever on top of a pipe somewhere.
# ''stal'' - Located at the end of a series of parkour and puzzles in a purple-roofed castle near the Luigi statue.
# ''wait'' - On top of a platform in the snow biome.
# ''strad'' - On top of Ludwig's Castle in the Super Mario World section of the map.
# ''blocks'' - In the final room of the airship on the south side of the map.
# ''far'' - In the Nether; at the top of a tower behind the Bowser statue.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - Inside of the giant Bowser mouth (modeled after the entrance to the Valley of Bowser).
* {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - There's a stronghold somewhere underground on the south side of the map.

== Halloween 2015 Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''strad'' - (X: -8, Y: 60, Z: 34) In a secret room in the house you spawn in; can be accessed by pulling a hidden lever behind the fireplace.
# ''chirp'' - (X: -143, Y: 98, Z: 38) In a secret room that can be accessed by pulling two levers on a minecart track in the starting village.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 37, Y: 67, Z: 270) Inside of one of the morgues in a graveyard.
# ''mall'' - (X: 254, Y: 24, Z: 194) In the basement of a house in the village at the southeast corner of the map; it can be opened via a lever in a graveyard at the other side of the village (the house also has end stone in an item frame next to it).
# ''blocks'' - (X: 118, Y: 70, Z: -203) In a massive mansion near the northeast corner of the map. It's in the basement under a bed which can be opened by a lever hidden in the walls.
# ''far'' - At the top of a weird-looking house near the massive mansion.
# ''stal'' - Inside of an abandoned house in the snow area of the map.
# ''ward'' - In another mansion in the center of a forest. It can be hidden.
# ''13'' - Located behind the second mansion in a morgue-like building. It can be opened via a series of puzzles within the mansion.
# ''wait'' - Located in a small shack hidden under a cluster of trees.
# ''cat'' - In a sandstone temple with a sheep face on it; can be found by going through the maze and finding a lever.
# ''11'' - On top of a giant tree with a creeper face on it.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal}} - Inside of the mouth of the creeper face on the giant tree.
* {{EnvLink|End Portal}} - Inside an underground entrance in a graveyard.

== Greek Mythology Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''stal'' - (X: 173, Y: 73, Z: 363) In the maze near spawn, in one of the corners in a hole in the wall.
# ''far'' - (X: 98, Y: 42, Z: 335) At the center of the Minotaur maze (where the spawn maze leads you to).
# ''mall'' -
# ''ward'' -
# ''cat'' -
# ''blocks'' - (X: 339, Y: 84, Z: -381) In the biggest house of a village up north with a horse statue.
# ''11'' - (X: 58, Y: 66, Z: -223) In a buried desert temple on a small peninsula.
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 223, Y: 19, Z: -181) Inside of a giant underwater temple.
# ''strad'' -
# ''13'' -
# ''wait'' - (X: -367, Y: 50, Z: 315) Under some ruins at the south side of the map.
# ''chirp'' - (X: 197, Y: 240, Z: 158) On the torch of the giant brown statue near spawn.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Ocean monument}} entrance - (X: 177, Y: 70, Z: -380)
* {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - (X: 7, Y: 19, Z: 151)

== Festive Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''cat'' - (X: -21, Y: 64, Z: -131) Under the giant Christmas Tree at spawn.
# ''blocks'' - (X: -76, Y: 76, Z: -150) In a pile of presents somewhere in the big house just to the left of the Christmas Tree.
# ''chirp'' - (X: -12, Y: 66, Y: -333) On a conveyor belt in Santa's Workshop (the big building at the top of the map).
# ''ward'' - (X: -9, Y: 57, Z: -255) Under Santa's Workshop, in a secret room hidden in the wall of a long narrow hallway.
#  ''mellohi'' - (X: 354, Y: 77, Z: 135) On top of the tower of a desert temple.
# ''strad'' - (X: 158, Y: 70, Z: 369) In an ice cavern, frozen behind a wall of ice.
# ''13'' - (X: 58, Y: 100, Z: 200) On top of a creeper snowman statue.
# ''stal'' - (X: -120, Y: 74, Z: 159) In the train station building in another desert village.
# ''mall'' - (X: -268, Y: 64, Z: -331) Nearby a village, inside of a small mine under a minecart track.
# ''far'' - (X: 259, Y: 63, Z: -335) In a small shack hidden in the side of a cliff.
# ''wait'' - (X: -81, Y: 33, Z: -14) In the world's stronghold, underneath an igloo behind the spawn point.
# ''11'' - (X: -12, Y: 66, Z: -128) In the Nether, under a trapdoor in an igloo at spawn.

=== Structures ===
* {{EnvLink|Stronghold}} - Behind the spawn point, in an igloo in the forest.

== Halo Mash-up pack ==
=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''13'' - (X: 277, Y: 82, Z: 52) Right outside the crashed pelican outside spawn.
# ''cat'' - (X: -141, Y: 62, Z: 99) At Valhalla, in the base closest to the entrance.  
# ''blocks'' - (X: -322, Y: 62, Z: 99) At Valhalla, in the other base opposite from the entrance.
# ''chirp'' - (X: -310, Y: 84, Z: 293) At Lockout on the bottom floor of the platform under the redstone block puzzle.
# ''far'' - (X: 103, Y:58, Z: 270) Located in the middle of blue base in Blood Gulch. 
# ''stal'' - (X: 293, Y: 82, Z: -149) Located at Guardian near a ledge. 
# ''mall'' - (X: 236, Y: 58, Z:185) In the middle inside Red Base at Blood Gulch. 
# ''mellohi'' - (X: 16, Y: 62, Z: -289) On the opposite side of where you enter Sandtrap under the arch.  
# ''11'' - (X: 53, Y:87, Z: -51) On the large structure you find by taking the path from spawn. 
# ''ward'' - (X: -271, Y: 73, Z: -296) In the structure at the Silent Cartographer 
# ''wait'' - (X: 18, Y: 50, Z: -189) At Sandtrap under the light room.  
# ''strad'' - (X: 264, Y:86, Z: -167) At Guardian up the ramp.

== Skyrim Mash-up pack ==
(WIP)

=== [[Music Disc]]s ===
# ''13'' -
# ''cat'' -
# ''blocks'' -
# ''chirp'' -
# ''far'' -
# ''stal'' -
# ''mall'' -
# ''mellohi'' -
# ''11'' -
# ''ward'' -
# ''wait'' -
# ''strad'' -