{{about|materials of blocks|tiers of tools and weapons|Tiers|materials of armor|Armor materials|materials used to repair items|Repair materials|materials in general|Material (disambiguation)}}
{{Outdated|edition=java|The materials mechanic was removed in [[Java Edition 1.20|1.20]]. The properties formerly controlled by material are now [[Block properties|properties of each block]].}}
'''Materials''' in ''[[Minecraft]]'' classify [[block]]s into different types, more or less indicating what the block is "made of".

== Materials ==

The following materials exist in ''Minecraft''. Each material gives certain properties to the block, although individual blocks may override them.

{| class="wikitable sortable" data-description="List of materials"
! Material
!class="unsortable" colspan=2| Map color&#x200b;<ref group="n">The default [[Map item format#Base colors | map base color]] of this material, but in fact most blocks do not use this default base color.</ref>
! Liquid?
! Solid?&#x200b;<ref group="n">If yes, block-dependent blocks can be placed on this block, and it is considered when spawning structures.</ref>
! Solid blocking?
! Block movement?
! Can burn?&#x200b;<ref group="n">Only used to determine if lava can set fire to blocks; not used for fire spreading.</ref>
! Can replace?&#x200b;<ref group="n">If yes, the player succeeds in placing some other block in the spot occupied by this block.</ref>
! Piston&#x200b;<ref group="n">If "pushed", the block is pushed by pistons. If "replace", the block is broken by pistons. If "blocked", the block prevents pistons from extending.</ref>
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Air |subclass=transparent |solidBlocking=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Amethyst |rgb=127,63,178}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Bamboo |rgb=143,119,72 |burn=1 |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Bamboo sapling |rgb=143,119,72 |burn=1 |piston=replace |blockmove=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Barrier |piston=blocked}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Bubble column |rgb=64,64,255 |subclass=liquid|solidBlocking=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Buildable glass}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Cactus |rgb=0,124,0 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Cake |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Clay |rgb=164,168,184}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Cloth decoration |rgb=199,199,199 |solidBlocking=0 |burn=1 |blockmove=0 |solid=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Decoration |blockmove=0 |solidBlocking=0 |solid=0 |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Dirt |rgb=151,109,77}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Egg |rgb=0,124,0 |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Explosive |rgb=255,0,0 |solidBlocking=0 |burn=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Fire |subclass=transparent |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |replace=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Froglight}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Frogspawn |rgb=64,64,255 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |blockmove=0 |solid=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Glass |solidBlocking=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Grass |rgb=127,178,56}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Heavy metal |rgb=167,167,167 |piston=blocked}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Ice |rgb=160,160,255 |solidBlocking=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Ice solid |rgb=160,160,255}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Lava |rgb=255,0,0 |subclass=liquid|solidBlocking=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Leaves |rgb=0,124,0 |solidBlocking=0 |burn=1 |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Metal |rgb=167,167,167}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Moss |rgb=0,124,0 |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Nether wood |rgb=143,119,72}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Piston |rgb=112,112,112 |piston=blocked}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Plant |rgb=0,124,0 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |blockmove=0 |solid=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Portal |blockmove=0 |solidBlocking=0 |solid=0 |piston=blocked}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Powder snow |rgb=255,255,255 |blockmove=0 |solid=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Replaceable fireproof plant |rgb=0,124,0 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |blockmove=0 |solid=0 |replace=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Replaceable plant |rgb=0,124,0 |solidBlocking=0 |burn=1 |piston=replace |blockmove=0 |solid=0 |replace=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Replaceable water plant |rgb=64,64,255 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |blockmove=0 |solid=0 |replace=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Sand |rgb=247,233,163}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Sculk |rgb=25,25,25}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Shulker shell |rgb=127,63,178}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Snow |rgb=255,255,255}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Sponge |rgb=229,229,51}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Stone |rgb=112,112,112}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Structural air |subclass=transparent |solidBlocking=0 |replace=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Top snow |rgb=255,255,255 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |blockmove=0 |solid=0 |replace=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Vegetable |rgb=0,124,0 |piston=replace}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Water |rgb=64,64,255 |subclass=liquid|solidBlocking=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Water plant |rgb=64,64,255 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |blockmove=0 |solid=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Web |rgb=199,199,199 |solidBlocking=0 |piston=replace |blockmove=0}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Wood |rgb=143,119,72 |burn=1}}
{{:Materials/properties row |name=Wool |rgb=199,199,199 |burn=1}}
|}
{{notelist|n}}

== Blocks ==

{| class="wikitable sortable" data-description="Materials of blocks"
! Material
!class="unsortable"| Blocks
|- id="Air"
|Air
| style="text-align: center" | [[Air]], [[cave air]], [[void air]], [[light block]]
|-
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Amethyst |blocks=Block of Amethyst;Budding Amethyst, Small Amethyst Bud;Medium Amethyst Bud;Large Amethyst Bud, Amethyst Cluster}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Bamboo |blocks=Bamboo}}
|- id="Bamboo sapling"
|Bamboo shoot
| style="text-align: center" | [[Bamboo shoot]]
|-
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Barrier |blocks=Barrier}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Bubble column |blocks=Bubble Column}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Buildable glass |blocks=Redstone Lamp}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Cactus |blocks=Cactus}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Cake |blocks=Cake}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Clay |blocks=Clay, Infested Stone;Infested Cobblestone;Infested Stone Bricks;Infested Mossy Stone Bricks;Infested Cracked Stone Bricks;Infested Chiseled Stone Bricks;Infested Deepslate, Slime Block, Honey Block, Honeycomb Block}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Cloth decoration |blocks=Matching Carpet}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Decoration |blocks=Powered Rail;Detector Rail;Rail;Activator Rail, Matching Torch, Redstone Dust, Ladder, Lever, Redstone Torch, Matching Stone Button, Redstone Repeater, Tripwire Hook, String, Flower Pot, Matching Overworld Wooden Button, Skeleton Skull;Wither Skeleton Skull;Zombie Head;Head;Creeper Head;Dragon Head, Redstone Comparator, End Rod, Scaffolding, Crimson Button;Warped Button, Matching Candle}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Dirt |blocks=Dirt, Coarse Dirt, Podzol, Farmland, Rooted Dirt, Dirt Path, Soul Soil, Mud, Packed Mud, Muddy Mangrove Roots}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Egg |blocks=Dragon Egg, Turtle Egg}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Explosive |blocks=TNT}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Fire |blocks=Fire;Soul Fire}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Froglight |blocks=Pearlescent Froglight;Verdant Froglight;Ochre Froglight}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Frogspawn |blocks=Frogspawn}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Glass |anchor=Glass blocks |blocks=Glass;Matching Stained Glass, Glowstone, Glass Pane;Matching Stained Glass Pane, Tinted Glass, Beacon, Sea Lantern, Conduit}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Grass |blocks=Grass Block, Mycelium, Hay Bale, Nether Wart Block;Warped Wart Block, Dried Kelp Block, Shroomlight, Target}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Heavy metal |blocks=Anvil;Chipped Anvil;Damaged Anvil, Grindstone, Lodestone}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Ice |anchor=Ice blocks |blocks=Ice, Frosted Ice}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Ice solid |blocks=Packed Ice, Blue Ice}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Lava |blocks=Lava Bucket}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Leaves |blocks=Oak Leaves;Spruce Leaves;Birch Leaves;Jungle Leaves;Acacia Leaves;Dark Oak Leaves;Mangrove Leaves;Azalea Leaves;Flowering Azalea Leaves}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Metal |blocks=Block of Lapis Lazuli;Block of Gold;Block of Iron;Block of Diamond;Block of Emerald;Block of Redstone;Block of Netherite, Block of Copper;Exposed Copper;Weathered Copper;Oxidized Copper, Waxed Block of Copper;Waxed Exposed Copper;Waxed Weathered Copper;Waxed Oxidized Copper, Cut Copper;Exposed Cut Copper;Weathered Cut Copper;Oxidized Cut Copper, Waxed Cut Copper;Waxed Exposed Cut Copper;Waxed Weathered Cut Copper;Waxed Oxidized Cut Copper, Cut Copper Slab;Exposed Cut Copper Slab;Weathered Cut Copper Slab;Oxidized Cut Copper Slab, Waxed Cut Copper Slab;Waxed Exposed Cut Copper Slab;Waxed Weathered Cut Copper Slab;Waxed Oxidized Cut Copper Slab, Cut Copper Stairs;Exposed Cut Copper Stairs;Weathered Cut Copper Stairs;Oxidized Cut Copper Stairs, Waxed Cut Copper Stairs;Waxed Exposed Cut Copper Stairs;Waxed Weathered Cut Copper Stairs;Waxed Oxidized Cut Copper Stairs, Ancient Debris, Lightning Rod, Iron Door, Iron Bars, Brewing Stand, Cauldron, Command Block;Repeating Command Block;Chain Command Block, Light Weighted Pressure Plate, Heavy Weighted Pressure Plate, Hopper, Iron Trapdoor, Bell, Matching Lantern, Structure Block, Jigsaw, Iron Chain}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Moss |blocks=Moss Block}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Nether wood |blocks=Matching Stem, Matching Stripped Stem, Matching Hyphae, Matching Stripped Hyphae, Matching Nether Planks, Matching Nether Wooden Pressure Plate, Matching Nether Wooden Fence, Matching Nether Wooden Trapdoor, Matching Nether Wooden Fence Gate, Crimson Slab;Warped Slab, Matching Nether Wooden Stairs, Matching Nether Wooden Door, Matching Nether Wooden Sign}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Piston |blocks=Piston;Sticky Piston}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Powder Snow |blocks=Powder Snow Bucket}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Plant |blocks=Matching Sapling, Any Small Flower, Any Mushroom, [Wheat Crop]Wheat;[Carrot Crop]Carrot;[Potato Crop]Potato;[Beetroot Crop]Beetroot, Sugar Cane, [Pumpkin Stem]Pumpkin Seeds;[Melon Stem]Melon Seeds, Lily Pad, [Nether Wart Crop]Nether Wart, [Cocoa Pod]Cocoa Beans, Chorus Plant, Chorus Flower, [Sweet Berry Bush]Sweet Berries, Matching Fungus, Weeping Vines, Twisting Vines, Glow Berries, Spore Blossom, Azalea;Flowering Azalea, Moss Carpet, Big Dripleaf;Small Dripleaf}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Portal |blocks=Nether Portal, End Portal, End Gateway}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Replaceable plant |blocks=Grass;Tall Grass, Fern;Large Fern, Dead Bush, Vines, Glow Lichen, Sunflower;Lilac;Rose Bush;Peony, Hanging Roots}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Replaceable fireproof plant |blocks=Matching Roots, Nether Sprouts}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Replacable water plant |blocks=Seagrass}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Sand |anchor=Sand blocks |blocks=Sand;Red Sand, Gravel, Soul Sand, Matching Concrete Powder}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Sculk |blocks=Sculk, Sculk Catalyst, Sculk Shrieker, Sculk Sensor, Sculk Vein}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Shulker shell |blocks=Shulker Box;Matching Shulker Box}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Snow |blocks=Snow Block}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Sponge |blocks=Sponge;Wet Sponge}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Stone |anchor=Stone blocks |blocks= Stone, Granite;Polished Granite;Andesite;Polished Andesite;Diorite;Polished Diorite, Cobblestone;Mossy Cobblestone, Tuff, Calcite, Dripstone Block, Pointed Dripstone, Any Sandstone;Any Red Sandstone, Smooth Stone, Deepslate;Cobbled Deepslate;Polished Deepslate;Deepslate Bricks;Cracked Deepslate Bricks;Deepslate Tiles;Cracked Deepslate Tiles;Chiseled Deepslate, Reinforced Deepslate, Bedrock, Any Ore, Gilded Blackstone, Block of Coal, Block of Raw Iron;Block of Raw Copper;Block of Raw Gold, Obsidian, Crying Obsidian, Netherrack, Any Nylium, Basalt;Polished Basalt;Smooth Basalt, Magma Block, End Stone, Any Stone Bricks, Nether Bricks;Chiseled Nether Bricks;Cracked Nether Bricks, Red Nether Bricks, Any Quartz Block;Smooth Quartz;Quartz Bricks, Any Blackstone, Any Purpur Block, End Stone Bricks, Any Prismarine, Terracotta;Matching Stained Terracotta, Matching Glazed Terracotta, Matching Concrete, Bricks, Mud Bricks, Bone Block, Enchanting Table, End Portal Frame, Ender Chest, Stonecutter, Respawn Anchor, Monster Spawner, Dropper;Dispenser, Furnace;Smoker;Blast Furnace, Observer, Matching Coral Block, Matching Dead Coral Block, Matching Dead Coral, Matching Dead Coral Fan, Any Stone Stairs;Mud Brick Stairs, Any Stone Slab;Mud Brick Slab, Matching Wall;Mud Brick Wall, Nether Brick Fence, Matching Stone Pressure Plate}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Structural air |blocks=Structure Void}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Top snow |blocks=Snow}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Vegetable |blocks=Pumpkin, Carved Pumpkin, Jack o'Lantern, Melon}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Water |blocks=Water Bucket}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Water plant |blocks=Kelp, Matching Coral, Matching Coral Fan, Sea Pickle}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Web |blocks=Cobweb}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Wood |anchor=Wood blocks |blocks=Matching Log, Any Stripped Log, Any Wood, Any Stripped Wood, Matching Overworld Planks, Matching Overworld Wooden Stairs, Matching Overworld Wooden Slab, Matching Overworld Wooden Fence, Matching Overworld Wooden Fence Gate,  Matching Overworld Wooden Door, Matching Overworld Wooden Trapdoor, Matching Overworld Wooden Pressure Plate, Matching Overworld Wooden Sign, Note Block, Jukebox, Bookshelf, Chest;Trapped Chest, Crafting Table, Loom, Barrel, Cartography Table, Fletching Table, Lectern, Smithing Table, Composter, Bee Nest;Beehive, Brown Mushroom Block;Red Mushroom Block;Mushroom Stem, Mangrove Roots, Daylight Detector, Matching Banner, Matching Campfire}}
{{:Materials/blocks row |name=Wool |blocks=Matching Bed, Matching Wool}}
|}

== Effects ==
Material properties are often used in place of specific block property checks, which can sometimes lead to unexpected behavior. Other times, material properties may simply serve as a default, but individual blocks can override this default value.

* [[Endermen]] teleport depending on materials that block movement, not whether the block itself is [[Solid block|solid]]. They choose a random destination and then seek downward until they find a block with a movement-blocking material.
* Various things that spawn on the "surface" similarly check material movement-blocking to find the surface.
* [[Painting]]s, [[Item frame]]s, [[Banner]]s, [[Sign]]s, and [[Cake]]s are supported by any block with a solid material. This is why signs can be placed on each other without any visible connection. In addition, paintings and item frames can also be placed on the sides of the redstone comparator and repeater.
* Player spawning checks for obstruction based on whether the material is solid or fluid, apart from banners, pressure plates, and signs.
* [[Cactus]] break depending on the solidity of an adjacent block's material and whether the adjacent block is lava or whether the material of the upper block is liquid.
* [[Farmland]] and [[dirt path]] turns to dirt if a solid-material block is placed on top, except fence gates. But moving pistons can be placed on farmland.
* Water and lava spread and currents generally depend on whether the block's materials blocks movement, while placement from a bucket depends on whether the material is solid or replaceable, except end portal and end gateway.
* When above a block with a replaceable material, the gravity-affected blocks can fall.
* Only blocks with a solid-blocking material can be redstone conductors.
* Iron golems can be spawned in air or liquid materials above a solid-blocking-material block whose collision box has a square upper surface by villagers.
* When broken, [[ice]] becomes water if above a block with a liquid or movement-blocking material.
* Lava checks for a flammable material nearby when attempting to start fires. The fire itself uses its own list of flammable materials, which is why fire can start next to a wood block without consuming the block.
* Block with a movement-blocking material and a full cube collision causes suffocation.
* Various tools check for materials to get breaking speeds.
* [[Rain]] and [[snowfall]] fall through blocks that have a non-liquid material that does not block movement.
* [[Dungeon]], [[lake]], and [[nether portal]] generation checks for solid materials, rather than solid blocks.
* [[Note block]]s check blocks or materials to determine some instruments. They check for a material of stone, sand, glass, and wood, with the resulting instrument being the base drum, snare, glass, and bass, respectively.
* Doors and trapdoors often use wood and metal materials to differentiate between wood and iron doors and trapdoors.

== History ==
{{info needed section|earlier history}}
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20|dev=23w17a|Removed materials.}}
}}

== See also ==
* [[Tiers]]
* [[Armor materials]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox gameplay}}

[[cs:Materiály]]
[[fr:Matériaux]]
[[ja:材料]]
[[ko:재료]]
[[nl:Materialen]]
[[pt:Materiais]]
[[ru:Материалы]]
[[uk:Матеріали]]
[[zh:材料]]