{{set index}}
{{Wip|Add more mechanics, specially complex and bug ones.}}
'''Mechanics''' represent various aspects of the complex behavior of the ''Minecraft'' world.

== Basic mechanics ==
Basic mechanics consist of vital mechanics used commonly by players:

=== Movement ===
{{main|Transportation}}

* {{EnvLink|Crawling}}: Players can switch to a prone (face-down) 0.6-block-high position to fit into 1-block-high spaces.
* {{ItemLink|id=feather|Flying}}: In [[Creative]] and [[Spectator]] modes (or if the player has the mayfly ability {{only|Bedrock|Education|short=1}}), players can fly through a world.
* {{ItemLink|id=elytra|Elytra#Flying|Gliding}}: Players wearing an [[elytra]] can glide through the world, optionally using [[firework rocket]]s to gain speed and/or height.
* {{EffectLink|id=jump-boost|Jumping|linkprefix=:}}: Players jump onto blocks above their current foot level.
* {{BlockLink|id=lime-bed|Lying}}: Players (and a few mobs) adopt a special 0.2-block-high position (prone, face-up) when [[Bed#Sleeping|sleeping]].
* {{EnvLink|Riding}}: Players can ride certain entities or mobs, such as [[minecart]]s, [[boat]]s, [[horse]]s and  saddled [[pig]]s. Mobs can also ride entities or mobs as well.
* {{EnvLink|Sitting}}: Players and many other mobs adopt a sitting position when riding an [[entity]] ([[boat]], [[minecart]]) or [[mob]].
* {{EnvLink|Sneaking}}: Players can sneak to blur their nametags from other players, reduce their hitbox to fit into smaller places, reduce the range that mobs can detect them at, and prevent detection by [[sculk sensors]] and [[wardens]].
* {{EnvLink|Sprinting}}: Players can shift from "walking" to a faster "running" pace at the expense of [[hunger]].
* {{EnvLink|Swimming}}: Players can travel on or under water without falling to the bottom, and can travel faster if [[Swimming#Sprint-swimming|swimming is combined with sprinting]].
* {{EffectLink|id=speed|Walking|linkprefix=:}}: Players can travel any direction on a level surface.

=== Combat and Mining ===
* {{ItemLink|id=shield|Blocking}}: Players can block attacks using [[shield]]s.
* {{ItemLink|id=iron-pickaxe|Breaking}}: Players can break most [[block]]s, sometimes requiring or benefiting from particular [[tool]]s.
** [[Instant mining]]: Players can break certain blocks instantly, sometimes requiring particular tools, [[Enchanting#Summary of enchantments|enchantment]]s or [[effect]]s to do so.
* {{EffectLink|id=strength|Damage|linkprefix=:}}: Entities (including players) can receive damage from the environment or other entities, potentially dying or being killed if they receive too much.
** [[Damage#Attack cooldown|Attack cooldown]]{{only|Java}}: After attacking, players need to wait some time to deal full damage with their next attack.
** [[Damage#Critical hit|Critical hits]]: Players can deal more damage by attacking while falling.
* {{EffectLink|id=wind-charged|Knockback (mechanic)|Knockback}}: Entities (including players) can receive knockback upon being attacked.
** {{EnvLink|Sprinting|Sprint-knockback}}: Players that attack while [[sprint]]ing will do a sprint-knockback attack, inflicting extra knockback and canceling their sprint.
* {{ItemLink|id=rotten-flesh|Drops}}: Entities and mobs to drop particular items or blocks (including items carried in their inventory) when they die or are destroyed.
* {{EnvLink|id=items|Dual wield}}: Players can wield 2 items, one in each hand. This includes shield use.
* {{EntityLink|id=skeleton|Mob infighting}}: Some mobs shift their attack to another player or mob when attacked, even if they were already engaged with another target.

=== Player status ===
* {{ItemLink|id=map|Advancement}}s{{only|je}}: An optional progression tree that gradually fills as the player progresses in the game.
** {{ItemLink|id=book|Achievement}}s{{only|be}}: A system similar to advancements.
* {{EntityLink|id=experience-orb|Experience}}: Players collect experience points from various sources, and can use them to enchant or repair items.
* [[Gameplay#Game modes|Game mode]]s: Different ways to play and to interact with a world and its contents.
* {{EffectLink|id=regeneration|Health|linkprefix=:}}: Players, mobs, and some other entities have a specific number of health points (shown in a GUI gauge); when these are all removed by damage, a player or mob is killed, while other entities are broken or destroyed.
* {{EffectLink|id=health-boost|Healing|linkprefix=:}}: Players, some mobs, and some other entities can recover health points via various means.
* [[Heads-up display]]: The HUD appears on screen while the player is in the game. It is superimposed on their view of the game world.
* {{EffectLink|Hunger|linkprefix=:}}: Players have a partly-hidden stock of "hunger" points; they can naturally heal damage (at the cost of hunger) if their hunger meter is full or nearly so, and sprinting requires a minimum hunger level.
** [[Food]]: Players replenish their hunger points by eating various food items.
* {{BlockLink|id=Player head|Inventory}}: The pop-up menu that the player uses to manage items they carry.
* {{ItemLink|id=Sign|Language}}: A feature that allows people to play in a language they prefer.
* {{EntityLink|id=player|Skin}}s: Custom textures on the characters that players can modify at their own preferences.
** {{EnvLink|id=emote|Emotes}}{{only|be}}: Emotes are a part of the character creator that allows players to perform animations.
* {{EffectLink|id=particle-speed|Effect|Status Effects}}: Various conditions (good, bad, or neutral) with limited duration, which can be inflicted on players or mobs in an assortment of ways.
* [[Third-person view]]: Allows the player to view the nearby environment from an "outside" perspective.

=== Interactions and items ===
* {{ItemLink|id=brush|Archaeology}}: Players can use a [[brush]] on [[suspicious block]]s to discover artifacts.
* {{ItemLink|id=gold-ingot|Bartering}}: Players can use [[gold ingot]]s to barter with [[piglin]]s.
* {{ItemLink|id=wheat|Breeding}}: Players can breed certain [[mob]]s, producing "baby" versions that grow up over time.
* {{BlockLink|id=brewing-stand|Brewing}}: With a [[brewing stand]], players can brew [[potion]]s.
* {{BlockLink|id=crafting-table|Crafting}}: Players can craft a variety of objects and materials, using the GUI for their [[inventory]] or a [[crafting table]].
** {{ItemLink|id=knowledge-book|Recipe book}}: An in-game guide for players to learn, check or apply [[recipe]]s. Recipes are unlocked when certain conditions are met, often when players get specific ingredients.
* {{EffectLink|id=weakness|Durability|linkprefix=:}}: [[Tool]]s, [[armor]] pieces and some [[weapon]]s have a limited number of uses, the degree to which they are "worn out" is displayed in the main GUI and inventory.
* {{BlockLink|id=enchanting-table|Enchanting}}: Experience can be used to enchant [[armor]], [[tool]]s and [[weapon]]s, granting them improved performance and/or special abilities.
* {{ItemLink|id=fishing-rod|Fishing}}: Players can use a [[fishing rod]] to catch fish, and other items (some quite valuable), or to pull mobs and other entities closer to the player.
* {{BlockLink|id=anvil|Item repair}}: Players can repair items in various ways through a/an [[anvil]], [[grindstone]], [[crafting table]], or [[2×2 grid|their own inventory]].
* {{EnvLink|Light}}: A mechanic that affects visibility, mob spawning, and plant growth.
* {{BlockLink|id=oak-log|Materials}}: ''Minecraft'' classify blocks into different types, more or less indicating what the block is "made of".
* [[Rarity]]: A statistic applied to [[item]]s, [[block]]s and [[advancement]]s to signify their value and ease in obtaining.
* {{BlockLink|id=lit-furnace|Smelting}}: Players can smelt/cook items in [[furnace]]s, [[smoker]]s or [[blast furnace]]s, turning raw materials into more desirable forms.
* [[Tiers]]: Refer to the different levels of tools and weapons, depending on the material. They determine block minability, durability, mining speed multiplier, damage multiplier, enchantability, and item used for repairing.
** {{ItemLink|id=diamond-chestplate|Armor materials}}: Refer to the material that an armor item uses.
* {{BlockLink|id=waterlogged-conduit|Waterlogging}}: Mechanic that allows non-full-cube [[block]]s to be filled with a water source block, both occupying the same space.
** {{ItemLink|id=snowball|Snowlogging}}{{only|be}}: A mechanic that allows layers of [[snow]] to occupy the same block space as certain types of vegetation.

=== World events ===
* {{EnvLink|Daylight cycle}}: As time passes, the [[sun]] and [[moon]] move through the sky, and the outdoor light level changes, affecting mob spawning.
* {{EntityLink|id=vindicator|link=patrol|Illager patrol}}: Occasional groups of [[illager]]s can spawn near players.
* [[Tutorial hints]]: Tabs in the top right corner of the player's screen that appear when a player starts a world in Survival mode for the first time on a device.
* {{EnvLink|Weather}}: The world experiences rain, overcast, snow, and storms, with effects varying by biome.
* {{EntityLink|id=zombie|Zombie siege}}{{Only|Java}}: If a player remains active near a village overnight, an invasion of [[zombie]]s may appear.

== Complex mechanics ==
{{Incomplete section|more mechanic sections with more mechanics}}
Complex mechanics represent extended world behavior that may be unfamiliar to some players. These mechanics are most useful to experienced players who need to accomplish complex tasks.

=== Block related ===
* {{BlockLink|id=anvil|Anvil mechanics}}: These mechanics allow players to repair and/or combine two items, to give an item a custom name, or to crush entities that walk beneath [[anvil]]s while they are falling.
* {{BlockLink|id=enchanting-table|Enchanting mechanics}}: These mechanics allow players to use an [[enchanting table]] at their maximum potential through the usage of [[Bookshelf|bookshelves]].
* {{EnvLink|Nether portal|link=Tutorial:Nether portals|Nether portal mechanics}}: These mechanics allow players to use [[Nether portal]]s to efficiently and accurately travel between the Overworld and Nether dimensions.
* {{ItemLink|id=redstone-dust|Redstone mechanics}}: The [[redstone]] mechanics allow players to build and use complex devices in-game, composed of multiple interacting blocks and entities.
** [[Redstone circuits]]: Basic types of sub-mechanisms used for event processing, logic, and interaction with the environment.
** [[Redstone components]]: Any component that makes possible to create mechanisms.
** [[Tutorial:Block update detector|Block update detector]]: A BUD switch is a redstone mechanism that uses quirks in the game in order to detect changes in nearby blocks.
** {{EnvLink|tutorial:Quasi-connectivity|Quasi-Connectivity|id=quasi-connectivity}}{{only|je}}: A property of [[dispenser]]s, [[dropper]]s, and [[piston]]s that allows them to be activated by anything that would activate the space above them, no matter what is actually in that space.

=== Entity and structures ===
* [[Attribute]]s: A system of buffs/debuffs that are properties on mobs and players. Attributes also have modifiers that adjust the strength of their effect.
* {{BlockLink|id=chest|Chest loot}}: The average quantity of each item that can be found in a naturally-generated chest, depending on its location.
* {{EnvLink|Explosion}}s: A physical event, generally destructive, that can be caused by several different circumstances.
* {{ItemLink|id=bed|link=Mob spawning|Spawning}}: Refers to the creation and placement of [[player]]s and [[mob]]s in the ''Minecraft'' world.
* {{EnvLink|id=village|Village mechanics}}: The means through which a collection of [[Villager|NPC characters]] interact with each other and the player.
** {{ItemLink|id=emerald|Trading}}: Players can use [[emerald]]s to buy items from [[villager]]s, or sell them items in exchange for emeralds.
** {{EntityLink|id=ravager|Raid}}: If a player approaches a [[village]] while having the [[Bad Omen]] effect, they can summon a multi-wave invasion against the village.

=== World related ===
* {{EnvLink|Altitude}}: A measurement of the absolute height of things in a ''Minecraft'' world.
* {{EnvLink|id=biomes|Biome}}s: Different regions of a world with distinct topographic and environmental features, as well as flora and fauna.
* {{EnvLink|Chunk}}s: 16-by-16-block-wide areas that ''Minecraft'' uses to manage a world.
* {{EnvLink|id=map|Coordinates}}: A measurement of the absolute, 3-dimensional location of things in a ''Minecraft'' worlds.
* [[Structure]]<nowiki/>s: Buildings that generate in all 3 dimensions.
* [[World seed]]: A string of characters or numbers, based upon which an entire ''Minecraft'' world is created.
* {{EnvLink|id=default|World type}}: Determines whether the world generates by default, or in particular ways.

=== Non specific ===
* [[Bossbar]]: A bar that appears on the game when a pillager raid, ender dragon fight, and a fight with the wither.
* [[Difficulty]]: An option that has a direct impact on the ease of gameplay, allowing the game's challenges to be tailored to the player's skill level.
* {{EnvLink|id=renewable-resource|Renewability}}: Refers to the possibility of an item or block to be obtained multiple times on [[Survival]] or [[Adventure]] modes.
* {{BlockLink|id=command-block|Scoreboard}}: A complex gameplay mechanic utilized through commands. Scoreboards are used to track, set, and list the scores of entities in a myriad of different ways.
* [[Tint]]: Tints are applied to several blocks, items and particles in order to modify the color their textures use

== Unintended mechanics ==
{{Incomplete section|more mechanic sections with more mechanics}}
Mechanics that are not intended to exist. These can cease to exist on any update as Mojang fixes bugs and glitches.

=== Blocks and items ===
* [[Tutorial:Block and item duplication|Duplication]]: A process to clone blocks and items with the usage of glitches. 
* [[Tutorial:Instant repeaters|Instant repeaters]]: Refreshing a redstone signal with absolutely no delay. It involves uses of BUD-powered pistons.
* {{ItemLink|id=compass|South-east rule}}: Also known as the '''Z-X rule''', is an unintentional mechanic wherein various effects occur based on the cardinal directions, specifically in a south-east variant.
* [[Tutorial:Breaking bedrock|Survival bedrock breaking]]: Bedrock blocks are intended to be indestructible on [[Survival]], but the usage of glitches can break them.
* [[Tutorial:Zero-ticking|Zero-ticking]]: Making a redstone signal turn on and off in the same [[tick]], go over how this could be used, particularly with its uses on pistons.

=== Entities ===
* [[Tutorial:Indestructible End crystals|End Crystal invulnerability]]: A glitch that makes possible to get indestructible [[end crystal]]s.
* [[Tutorial:X-ray glitches|X-ray glitches]]: X-ray glitches allow the player to see certain features that are normally hidden behind blocks.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox gameplay}}
{{Navbox Minecraft|general}}

[[es:Mecánicas]]