=== Introduction ===

From Summer’s POV, she informs the reader that she is writing the introduction to allow Guy to have more time to prepare his kit for his next journey. Summer also informs the reader that although this is still Guy’s story, she’ll be writing another bit later on, as well as a section about the lessons that they have learned from their adventure. She then talks about how Guy had popped into this world, learning about surviving on an island, and then setting out to discover more about the world that he is in, which eventually led him to bumping into Summer in the first place. Summer then mentions that although their initial meeting was rough at first, they soon became friends, and she now feels like that she and Guy are inseparable, and so, she decided to tag along with him as they start on their new adventure.

=== Chapter 1 ===

Summer then asks Guy if they are heading in the right direction, and although Guy says that he isn’t sure, he knows that the direction they are going led to him bumping into her in the first place. The two start heading westward, away from the base that Summer had lived in. They already have the path planned out, with the first day for traversing the taiga biome that they were in, before setting up camp at the edge of a forest, followed by heading to a jungle by the end of the second day, which would’ve been the farthest that Summer had ever been from home up to that point. Unfortunately, it had started snowing, which is why Summer pondered that question in the first place. Guy then talks to the reader about how the world is always changing and learning to adapt to them, such as learning how to use shields and crossbows, before he and Summer pass by the igloo where they first met, and then stop near some sweet berry bushes in a nearby forest. Guy then goes on about how he saved some of the animals in the area (sheep and cows) by getting rid of the predators, and the two then continue on, only to stop at the edge of the forest before nightfall and build a small shelter. The next morning, Guy successfully crafts a campfire before they climb the hills nearby, and soon discover a jungle off in the distance. Guy then starts running down the hill toward the jungle out of pure excitement, but almost immediately gets caught in some powder snow and starts to panic as his thoughts make him feel like he is being wrapped in a soft blanket.

=== Chapter 2 ===

Summer screams frantically, wondering as to where Guy is, before finding him trapped in powder snow. She has no choice but to punch him to bring him back to reality, and orders him to follow her. Guy eventually does so, and soon ends up in the jungle, although he is in shock over the sudden change in temperature. Nonetheless, he soon returns back to his normal self, noting that there is nothing but uncharted lands in front of them, and begins to wonder as to what could be in the jungle. Summer then mentions that they can climb the vines of the jungle trees, much to Guy’s relief, but he admits that he feels uncomfortable about doing so. Summer then crafts some shears, and the two begin making their way through the jungle. The two soon stumble across some parrots, and then some bamboo nearby, followed by a few pandas, and then a jungle temple. Guy and Summer scour through it, flipping some levers downstairs, which yield nothing, leading them to disabling the tripwire and taking the arrows out of the dispensers, followed by taking out some gold and iron ingots from a chest. They then consider checking the levers on the other side again as Summer suggests to block off the doors and windows as it is getting dark. Guy oppose, arguing that he can barely breathe in the heat of the jungle, and then considers climbing the vines of the jungle trees, echoing what Summer had said earlier. They decide to climb up one tree and make it to the top, but they are soon attacked by phantoms. Guy ends up falling into the lake below as he aims his crossbow at the phantom, killing it with one arrow. Summer then leaps from the tree into the pond, and the two have no choice but to take shelter in the jungle temple. Despite being attacked by more phantoms and a nearby skeleton, Guy and Summer make it inside the temple and block off all the openings just before Guy ends up falling down a block into a small room with a chest, speculating that perhaps the levers may have had something to do with it. Opening the chest reveals a stone shovel, some iron ingots, and an emerald. The two then rest for the night, hoping to figure out what the emerald does tomorrow after attempting to use it for crafting.

=== Chapter 3 ===

The next morning, Guy and Summer leave the jungle temple under rainfall and soon come across a desert, along with some rabbits, and sometime later, the two build an open-air shelter complete with a small pool. Summer suggests that they next build a hut at the top of a nearby hill, and Guy mockingly agrees. Summer then goes up to the top of a nearby hill and points out a structure off in the distance to Guy, and upon closer inspection, it is revealed to be a desert well. Summer begins to wonder if there were other people that had made the structure before the two start heading back to the shelter. Just then, Guy notices something off to his left that resembles a pyramid made of sandstone, and he and Summer decide to go check it out, revealing it to be a desert pyramid. The two then head inside, focusing on the pattern in the center, and head downward to the treasure room, mining out the pressure plate to avoid the TNT trap. The chests in the room contain bones, rotten flesh, gold ingots, gold nuggets, iron bars, iron nuggets, redstone, a few diamonds, and another emerald. Heading back up to the main room, night had already fallen, and they decide to stay in the pyramid for the night as husks spawn nearby, with one of them falling in through the top of the pyramid before it is sealed up. The husk is soon killed, and Summer calls it a night as Guy considers as to what the emeralds could be used for. Just then, he feels too hot, so he knocks out some sandstone to place down some fences, but spiders and husks soon convene on him, so he blocks up the entrances once more and then falls asleep in his bed.

=== Chapter 4 ===

The next morning, Guy springs out of bed and packs up his things, squeaking to Summer that he claims he found an enchanted item out in the desert last night, and quickly runs out of the pyramid to find it. However, he soon stumbles across a desert village before being attacked by a few husks. Fortunately, they are soon killed as Summer catches up with Guy. The two then decide to head down the river to explore some more, and soon come across a savanna biome with acacia trees and a village nearby. The two hope to find some giraffes and zebras before ducking for cover to avoid being seen by the local villagers. Guy and Summer end up mistaking one of them for a witch before the former decides to cautiously approach them. As Guy reaches out with his hand, Summer prepares to launch an arrow, warning him to be careful.

=== Chapter 5 ===

Guy instinctively reacts by shielding the villager with his back, shouting at Summer not to shoot it as the villager offers to trade some of Guy’s carrots for an emerald. He then says to Summer that the villagers are friendly and want to trade, making the two realize that the emeralds are considered as currency and are used for trading with villagers. The two then shear some sheep to get some wool to obtain another emerald from a different villager, but two other villagers refuse to trade as the sun begins to set, and Guy and Summer attempt to find a house to sleep in, but ultimately instead decide to carve out a small underground shelter, fending off a skeleton and a creeper before resting for the night. The next morning, the two continue trading with villagers, and also understand that some villagers have jobs, such as farming and fishing. Sometime later, Guy rings the bell in the center of the village, causing the villagers to run in every direction. Summer asks as to what he did and what the villagers are so alarmed about, and Guy points to a figure coming around the corner of a nearby building.

=== Chapter 6 ===

The figure that appears around the corner is an iron golem, and Guy and Summer ultimately deduce that the bell in the center of the village is meant to be used to warn the villagers of an oncoming threat. They decide to leave the iron golem alone and explore the village a bit more, coming across the building that is home to a library. Going through the librarian’s trades, Guy realizes that they can trade their seven emeralds for an enchanted book, but Summer points out that the trade also requires a book. They ultimately decide against it for now, as crafting a book would require killing a cow or a rabbit, and Summer understands how Guy loves and adores the animals in this world. They instead decided to plant some sugar cane to craft some paper to trade with another villager for a book. Summer then starts taking some wheat from a garden in the village, buy Guy thinks that it isn’t a right thing to do, being suspicious that there might be some so-called "laws" in this world. Summer immediately questions this by taking some wheat and punching out a clay block from the wall of a nearby house, noting that the villagers and the iron golem don’t react. Guy immediately apologies, now understanding that he should treat others the way that he should be treated. A bit later, Guy and Summer attempt to trade with a farmer villager, but no trades are allowed due to low demand, so they instead trade some emeralds for some food, allowing additional options to sell four melons for an emerald or three emeralds for eighteen cookies. The two then decide to split up, with Summer going to shear some sheep, and Guy attempting to trade with the fisherman villager for some coal. Just then, he accidentally hits the villager, and the iron golem attacks him in one fell swoop.

=== Chapter 7 ===

Summer shouts at Guy to run, and he is able to hobble out of the village, with Summer following close behind and offering him a potion of Healing. He chugs it down with Summer apologizing at him for leaving him behind, but Guy assumes that it was an accident caused by him. Summer then decides to head back to the village to get something in the library as Guy reflects on him accidentally hitting the villager, musing that he could basically be banished from the village thanks to the iron golem attacking him. Summer then runs back to him with a book titled "Enchanting", and the two soon realize that they can enchant their weapons themselves with an enchantment table, needing to craft one with diamonds, obsidian, and a book. The two then rest for the night in a small carved-out bunker, needing to focus on replenishing their items to trade with the villagers. The next morning, Guy mines out the back wall of the bunker, not even noticing that he had tunneled right into daylight. Summer then notices the flower forest, and the two later notice a few bees heading toward a beehive. Summer then uses one of her glass bottles to safely extract the honey from the beehive, and the two soon stumble across a cave with stalagmites and stalactites. They decide to go into it, coming across some copper ore. A zombie is then heard in the distance, but Summer stays put, wanting the zombie to come to her. Sure enough, the zombie ends up walking into the sunlight and is soon burned to death. Other zombies and skeletons soon go after Guy and Summer, with the former wanting to head back to the bunker. Summer instead insists that they stay, as the hostile mobs walking into the sun will make it easier for them to be killed.

[[Category:Minecraft: The Village chapters]]