<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Castle Redstone}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 8 ===

The three (Sir Rajah, Pal, and Faith) walk around the bastion remnant, noticing skeletal remains of the others that have attempted to enter it. Faith begins to question as to whether they are up to the task or not, but Pal says that its up to Sir Rajah. The two then discuss about Faith’s early life living in a village, knowing that she used to live "a boring life, but a safe one" before deciding to leave as she had "a passion for change". The three soon find Sir Tyrus attacking several piglins and keep their distance. Faith and Sir Rajah consider helping out The Bravos, but Pal refuses, saying that helping them would only make things worse in the end. The three then scour around the bastion remnant some more before eventually finding a small opening above a lava moat. Sir Rajah chops down some warped wood nearby with his axe, making some ladders to use as a bridge. The three barely make it across the moat and slip through the opening in the bastion remnant; they explore it a bit before they are cornered by Sir Tyrus.

=== Chapter 9 ===

After a brief clash, the four (Sir Rajah, Pal, Faith, and Sir Tyrus) decide to call a truce for the time being as they go through the bastion remnant, soon coming across the doors that lead to the treasure room. They solve a puzzle involving pressure plates which allow the doors to open, and they hurry inside.

=== Chapter 10 ===

Inside the treasure room, the four notice the treasure in the middle of a pool of lava. Sir Tyrus is eager to get the treasure quickly, but Faith is skeptical and thinks that there is another trap, but Sir Tyrus breaks the chest without anything happening, as iron, gold, and netherite ingots spill onto the floor. Sir Rajah attempts to take the netherite, but Sir Tyrus takes the ingots all to himself. Just then, three magma cubes appear in the room, and the four have no choice but to run away.

=== Chapter 11 ===

Pal quickly shoves the netherite ingots into his inventory as he, Sir Rajah, and Faith escape the bastion remnant. Sir Rajah is worried about Sir Tyrus, but Pal says that he isn’t their problem to deal with. The four then attack the magma cubes, which end up splitting into smaller magma cubes. Pal quickly crafts some TNT and throws it at the magma cubes, killing them and also destroying the doorway that led to the treasure room. Piglins and hoglins soon appear, and the four have no choice but to head back to the makeshift bridge. They make it across, but not before a piglin starts walking across it. Pal uses the axe to break the bridge, causing the piglin to die after being submerged in lava. As the other piglins squeal in anger, the four eventually head back to the nether portal and go through it.

=== Chapter 12 ===

Now back in the Overworld, the four collect themselves before Sir Tyrus leaves with his share of the netherite ingots. The three (Sir Rajah, Pal, and Faith) soon head back to town and trade their netherite ingots with the Mapmaker for the map to Castle Redstone. Sir Rajah happily looks it over, but Pal is skeptical and thinks that the map isn’t accurate, noticing a portion of it that he doesn’t recognize. Sir Rajah says that its because the map is from beyond the boundaries of their current area. Nonetheless, the three resupply and prepare to head off toward Castle Redstone.

=== Chapter 13 ===

The three soon make it to an ocean, with Sir Rajah and Faith looking over the map. They soon notice some dots that are meant to resemble islands. Pal then crafts some boats, and it isn’t long before the three traverse the ocean. Sir Rajah says that it’ll take a few days form them to find an archway, which will point them in the right direction toward Castle Redstone. Pal is hopeful that the map is correct, and his hopefulness rings true as the archway comes into view not long after. By nightfall, Pal and Sir Rajah are awoken by Faith, who notices something below them. Sir Rajah notices an ocean monument, but the three are soon attack by guardians after one is caught in Sir Rajah’s fishing rod.

=== Chapter 14 ===

The three quickly row toward an island to fend off the guardians despite Pal’s boat being destroyed. After recollecting themselves, they look over the map to find the shortest route to Castle Redstone, and agree to go through a swamp.