=== Chapter 15: Lisa ===

Switching to Lisa’s POV, she, Opal, and Braun head back to Lisa and Opal’s house without further incident. Opal mutters something about sorting through the resources, while Braun tries to speak, but is unable to, either due to embarrassment, Lisa’s expression, or fear that Opal would yell at him again. Lisa ends up going out to the ranch to calm herself down, noticing Braun slowly moving toward the fence. She then says to him to not apologize, even though he should, because she wouldn’t accept it otherwise, and Braun agrees that what she is saying is fair. Lisa then asks him if she would feel awful if he told her the truth, and he reiterates that he wasn’t thinking at all and didn’t want her to think less of him. Lisa then asks Braun about what would’ve happened if he said his name back in town when they first met, and Braun concurs that they wouldn’t have gone to the Nether, nor would she have listened to him. Lisa adds that she would’ve thanked him anyway and let him tour their house, adding that she still would’ve asked him about who he was, and it still would’ve mattered to her, as she was planning to go to the Nether without him anyway. Lisa is still glad, however, that she went to the Nether with Braun instead of going by herself. Braun interjects, saying to Lisa that she would’ve been safer if he wasn’t tripping over himself. She counters by saying that they had pretty good teamwork, but adds that its because it sucks to know that he made up so much, and would’ve understood if he had told the truth in the first place. Lisa then has Braun sit down beside her, saying that it’d be mean to have him stay standing. Braun interjects by saying that she shouldn’t be talking to him right now, but Lisa says that she is too tired to be mad at him.

=== Chapter 16: Opal ===

Switching to Opal’s POV, she heads downstairs and rebuilds her energy by crafting shulker boxes. By midday, she feel hungry, so she saves repairing the elytra for later and heads into the kitchen, noticing Lisa and Braun by the furnace with the latter holding a bundle of wheat. The three eventually sit down and eat some bread for a bit, with Braun asking Opal if she is feeling better and if there is anything that they can do to help. The discussion soon breaks down to an intense argument between Opal and Lisa, with Lisa wanting to retrieve Opal’s items from the ancient city and to kill off the warden so Opal could be her former self again, and Opal basically wanting to retire from being an adventurer. Opal then asks Braun if he should apologize to Lisa for lying, but Lisa says that he already spent the entire morning milking cows and shearing sheep as an apology, and once again asks Opal if she wants to retrieve the items. Opal takes a deep breath, and then says that it’s a good thing that the sheep were sheared.

=== Chapter 17: Lisa ===

Switching to Lisa’s POV, she, Opal, and Braun begin mining down to the ancient city, going through paths that Opal had blocked off long ago. It isn’t long before the three make it to the deep dark, being cautious about sculk sensors. The three use the wool to block the sensors. A skeleton appears to attack Lisa, but while killing it, she trips over a wool block, causing a sensor to activate a sculk shrieker. Lisa heads back over to Opal as Braun reminds her to be careful. Another sculk shrieker goes off a bit later, with Braun apologizing despite Lisa unintentionally activating it. A third activates soon after as Lisa and Braun catch each other from falling. Opal then starts to chicken out, and Lisa attempts to calm her down, but she hatches a new plan that involves running away and avoiding the warden’s attacks by dodging them. Opal quickly agrees to the plan, and soon the three arrive at the ancient city. Lisa flies around with her elytra as Opal and Braun walk on foot, being careful to avoid any sculk sensors. Lisa then notices Opal’s armor off in the distance and attempts to land on a wall, but she slips and falls into Opal’s arms, activating the sculk shrieker for the fourth time.

=== Chapter 18: Opal ===

Switching to Opal’s POV, she catches Lisa, but Lisa’s fall inadvertently activates a sculk shrieker for a fourth time. Braun then hides as the warden digs out from beneath the surface of the ancient city. The warden then begins walking toward Braun.

=== Chapter 19: Lisa ===

Switching to Lisa’s POV, she starts to head toward Braun to help him, but Opal stops her, reminding her about the plan. Lisa then intentionally stomps her feet on the ground to attract the warden’s attention, causing it to go to her. Braun then shouts back at the warden, causing it to go back toward him. Opal then realizes that the plan all along was to make sounds to confuse the warden. Lisa then starts heading upward to avoid being hit by the warden, followed by Braun shooting arrows to distract it, reminding Opal to let them know when she is ready.

=== Chapter 20: Opal ===

Switching to Opal’s POV, she starts placing down wool blocks for every step she took to avoid being detected by the warden. She eventually finds her items and tells Lisa and Braun to get out of here. Lisa and Braun continue to distract the warden as Opal escapes. Eventually, all three escape the ancient city, causing the warden to dig back down into the ground.

=== Chapter 21: Lisa ===

Switching to Lisa’s POV, she, Opal, and Braun begin sorting through Opal’s items a few days later. Granted, they were very tired, and they still had to deal with other hostile mobs on their way back to surface level. Lisa was concerned that Opal would regret everything and be angry that she was brought down to the ancient city again, but she instead had light in her eyes as she went over the maps with Lisa and Braun while eating cookies. Braun suggested that they take out some old journals as Lisa says to Opal that she had so much with her, surprised that she didn’t have some place to stash it. Opal agrees, adding that the ancient city was her longest trip in a while, and that she probably should’ve planned better before going to it. Braun concurs, asking Opal about why she overplans and forgets to stop adventuring, and Opal says to not let her forget to bring treasure home before going on her next adventure. Opal then says to Lisa and Braun that they both taught her a lot in the past couple of weeks as she never thought she would be able to go out into the world again, but her feelings have changed, and she wants to go back to adventuring again. Opal then invites the two to adventure with her regarding the maps, and Lisa says that she will as she gives Opal a hug.

[[Category:Minecraft: Journey to the Ancient City chapters]]