<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: The Mountain}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 18 ===

Summer brings Guy to an area of the nether fortress which is blocked by a wall of netherrack and a wooden door. Inside, there are mushrooms growing on nether bricks. Guy asks as to what happened, and Summer mentions that she got injured while out and about in the Nether. She was planning to head back to "the Ice Cube" when a ghast launched a fire charge at the blaze pen. Guy and Summer apologize for their earlier actions and reconcile as they plan to leave the Nether. They eventually make it back to the land bridge, only for it to be destroyed by a ghast. Guy and Summer then head back through the fortress. Mining their way up is no good, leading to lava. They then mine to the side, barely avoiding combat with a piglin, before eventually taking cover from ghasts in a trench. As the sounds of the ghasts fade away, Guy and Summer peek their heads out from the trench, revealing to them a crimson forest.

=== Chapter 19 ===

Guy and Summer survey the crimson forest, taking in the crimson-colored grass, nether-wart-like mushrooms, and "burning cinders" with "luminous cubes embedded in them". Just as Guy reaches out to grab one, they are greeted by the sounds of a hoglin. Guy and Summer attempt to attack one, but Summer ends up falling toward certain death, while Guy ends up killing it. Thankfully, however, Summer is alive, but the two are attacked by some more hoglins. Acting quickly, the two dig a trench to avoid being attacked, soon finding some blackstone and some nether gold ore. Guy and Summer then hear what they believe is another person killing the hoglins, but it turns out to be some piglins. Acting quickly, the two head up back to the surface and block off the trench. They then hear some hoglins off in the distance. Now in a warped forest, Guy and Summer eventually find themselves on a peninsula right above lava. Summer appears to accept defeat, but Guy has other plans to make sure they stay alive.

=== Chapter 20 ===

Acting quickly, Guy and Summer make a bunker, with a warped tree acting as the center. The two decide to take a break and regroup, trying to understand the world changes. Guy decides to dig downward, immediately finding some blackstone. He crafts a brewing stand and uses the lone water bottle, along with nether wart and a magma cream, to brew a potion of fire resistance. Guy is excited to leave the Nether, but Summer refuses at first, saying that she would deserve to be down here because she was "the one that got us into this" mess. After some small pep talk from Guy about never leaving Summer alone again, she agrees. Guy then mines up some more blackstone to create a furnace to cook the raw porkchop. However, the crimson and warped planks don’t seem to work. Guy then uses the wooden pickaxe, as well as sticks crafted from the crimson and warped planks, to light the furnace, much to his own delight. The two then eat some cooked porkchop and soon get back to work.

Guy eventually discovers a creature "similar in shape and size" to that of a magma cube, revealed to be a strider. Summer then notices one wearing a saddle. The two are excited to be able to "ride out" of the Nether, and also have some warped fungus to use as bait. Guy then gets attacked by some piglins, but is able to safely head back into the bunker. He then gives Summer a stone pickaxe to mine out some nether gold ore, just enough for Guy to craft a gold helmet. To his surprise, the piglins are no longer attacking him. Summer is already on a strider, tossing Guy a saddle to use on one. A hoglin charges at Guy from behind, but he is able to get on the strider before the hoglin hits him into lava.

=== Chapter 21 ===

Guy and Summer ride on their striders through the lava lake. Eventually, the two make it to the basalt deltas, where numerous magma cubes greet them. Dodging and turning from them, Guy and Summer eventually find "the Ice Cube" resting on top of a cliff edge. The two are then attacked by a ghast from under the lava, but are successful in killing it, with Summer a bit upset that it negates them getting a ghast tear. The two then head toward some more changed land, noticing several fires that are bluish in color.

=== Chapter 22 ===

The changed land is revealed to be the soul sand valley. Guy and Summer get off their respective striders and explore the valley, finding a fossil, as well as a bastion remnant. Entering the remnant, Summer motions to leave upon discovering a piglin, but Guy notices a chest nearby. Opening it reveals to him some blocks of gold, some netherite scrap, crying obsidian, and some golden carrots, as well as a written book detailing the changes. Guy reads through the book when they are attacked by piglins. Guy has Summer escape the remnant while he attempts to do so. He bashes through numerous piglins, magma cubes, and skeletons to get to the central island of the remnant, which has numerous gold blocks, and a chest consisting of blocks of iron and gold, and an enchanted diamond pickaxe. The two then head for the portal next to "the Ice Cube" but are attacked by a ghast. The two try to defeat it, but one of Guy’s arrows ends up hitting a zombified piglin. The two are overwhelmed by them, but a fire charge from a ghast helps clear the way. 

Guy goes through the portal when he is attacked by a piglin brute. The piglin brute turns into a zombified piglin. Guy, surprised at this, tries to inform Summer about it, but realizes that she is still in the Nether. He heads back to save her, using his potion of fire resistance and the enchanted diamond pickaxe. Attacking numerous zombified piglins and piglin brutes, Guy opens up a path for Summer to enter the portal. With the piglin brutes aiming at them and a Ghast fire charge closing in on them, the two jump toward the portal.

=== Epilogue ===

Guy and Summer place down the last bit of redstone for the redstone lamps in the main chamber. Guy then flips a lever, lighting up the redstone lamps. He sighs, knowing that he is about to leave, having Bacon Bits, the zombified piglin from the previous chapter, stay as a substitute for him, but Summer says to Guy that she’ll be coming along with him, much to his surprise. She also mentions to him about writing the last chapter of a book, suggesting that she add a list at the end. The two then look out at the main chamber toward land that had never been traveled to, knowing that they are stronger together as they can now consider each other as friends.

=== What We Have Learned from the World of Minecraft ===

This section lists off all of the "fressons" that were heard throughout the novel.