{{Lost premium version}}
{{Infobox version
| edition = MinecraftEdu
| image = MinecraftEdu 1.5.1 Build 4.png
| type = Development Build
| date = April 17, 2013
| downloads = [https://archive.org/download/minecraftedu-mod-versions/1.5/1.5.1_build-4_classroom_20130417.jar Classroom]
| prevparent = 1.5.1 Build 1
| prev = 1.5.1 Build 3
| nextparent = 1.5.2 Build 1
| nextparentlink = MinecraftEdu 1.5.2 Build 1
| next = 1.5.1 Build 5
}}

'''1.5.1 Build 4''' is the fourth build for {{El|MinecraftEdu}} 1.5.1, released on April 17, 2013. It is based on [[Java Edition 1.5.1]].

== Additions ==
=== General ===
* Can now give any subitems / subblocks through teacher Give menu.
* Teleporting to non-standard dimensions is now possible.
* Server now announces all loaded mods in Advanced server console.
* Updated to latest WorldEdit version.
* Better handling of spawn blocks / spawn position.
* MinecraftEdu programs have new icons. 
* If a student places an Information Block, "Everyone can edit" is set to true by default.
* Updated Tutorial World. 
* Changed default view distance to be "normal".

== Fixes ==
'''13 bugs fixed'''
* Players should now be always visible after teleporting.
* Fixed "Unable to locate sign at" error.
* Bans are now working again (always ban by alias).
* Fixed foundation block not rendering text.
* Fixed visual fill not working.
* Translation fixes.
* Removed top bar from "Rename Teleport Station" GUI.
* Students can no longer place blocks in front or back of metal doors.
* Back arrow in teacher GUI:s now sets the current textfield focused.
* Fixed dig / place / fill undo actions.
* Fixed realms button position.
* Freeze & mute is now reseted for the user after leaving the server (they don't anymore stick in singleplayer).
* ... And some smaller tweaks =)

=== Mac fixes ===
'''4 bugs fixed'''
* Mac Dock now always displays the program name.
* MinecraftEdu program icons are now used on the Dock (Magnificent 256x256 icons!)
* Can now choose to put the MinecraftEdu Launcher in Applications during installation (or from the Launcher).
* Polished Launcher UI.

== Videos ==
{{yt|X8VvWyy57PQ}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Edu versions}}

[[ja:MinecraftEdu 1.5.1 Build 4]]