<noinclude>{{fiction|sixth|chapter|Minecraft: Mob Squad}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 31: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he is inside Stu’s Store, working with Elder Stu to craft swords, axes, and shields for the other townsfolk understanding that what they are doing is valuable and special. Stu mentions to Tok that that he never had kids or found a wife because he decided to become an Elder, noting, of course, that he decided not to pass on his skills. He wonders as to how Tok learned to craft, and Tok mentions that he learned it from one of Mal’s books. Stu then says that he has a few books about crafting and that Tok could borrow them while Stu teaches him. Tok appears to like the idea. Stu soon realizes that they are running low on materials, so he asks Tok to go see what he can find out in the Hub. Tok reluctantly agrees and looks out through the door, soon locking eyes with a creature described as "a cow crossed with the biggest, ugliest rock" that he had ever seen. Tok runs off just as the creature crashes into the corner of a building. He then decides to lure the creature down the same alley that Jarro had cornered him in from a week ago, having something up his sleeve. Tok catapults himself to the bottom step, letting the creature ram into the wall. He then lands on the creature’s back, although is bucked off instantly. Tok then decides to stab the creature in its behind.

=== Chapter 32: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he and Mal are close to the dais when a potion of poison flies through the air and crashes into Mal’s chest. Chug notices that Mal’s cheeks are starting to sink in, along with purple hollows underneath her eyes, and her lips becoming dry and cracked. She urges Chug to go after Krog, so Chug barrels toward him with the shield. Krog hurls a few potions at him, but they all miss; one hits the cobblestone behind him, another hits his shield, and another is about to hit him, but is shot down with an arrow from Lenna. Krog then runs off, with Chug and Lenna following close behind. They eventually corner him in an alley, so Krog throws a potion of weakness unbeknownst to Chug, who tries to lift his diamond sword to attack Krog, but describes his arms as being made of noodles. Tok then attacks Krog from behind with his iron sword as he topples to the ground. Chug splashes some bits of the weakness potion on Krog’s forehead. Lenna then ties Krog with a lead to a door. Chug then shouts out to the Elders that Krog had been caught, and soon, a few Elders and some adults find them. Chug takes off the fake nose and witch hat of Krog, revealing himself to the townspeople as the bad guy, leaving some gasping at the revelation. Nan then asks as to where Mal is, and Chug mentions that she is back at the dais, noting that she got hit with a potion of poison. Nan then takes off running.

=== Chapter 33: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he, Chug, and Lenna follow Nan as they find Mal on the far side of the dais. Mal is described as "a piece of old, rotten wood", with her skin being gray, her hair becoming "dull and greasy", her eyes looking sunk in and empty, her lips looking dry and cracked, and her arms looking "scrawny and weak". Nan asks for Tok to go get some milk for Nan and Chug, so Tok runs off to Mal’s farm. He snatches two buckets of milk from the barn and hurries back to Mal, who now looks like that she is both melting and drying out at the same time, with her eyes bulging behind her eyelids. Tok then finds a cup and Nan offers some milk for Mal to drink, but most of it dribbles down her chin. Tok grabs the cloth from the top of a milk bucket, dips it into the milk, and then offers it to Mal, who starts to swallow and suck on the cloth. Nan then takes over, doing what Tok did. Chug begins to cry under the realization that Mal might be dead. Tok begins to shed a few tears as well, but he flicks them away. Mal’s mother and father soon find the group, feeling worried. The milk in the first bucket is half gone. Mal turns her head away once she is offered another cup of milk and begins to close her eyes.

=== Chapter 34: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she realizes that everything hurts under the effect of poison, but once offered a cup of milk, she begins to feel better. She begins to feel her fingers and toes again, and her senses get back to work. Soon, Mal hears people being worried about her, and with a creaking voice, asks if she can have something besides milk if she lives. Everyone around Mal breathes a sigh of relief, and upon opening her eyes, about half of the town is staring at her. Mal’s dad has several questions, but Nan interjects, saying that he should be thankful that Mal helped save the town. Mal then says that she’ll be fine, noting that she would’ve died had it not been for the bucket of milk. Nan then asks for Stu to clear the jail out of cobblestone and to have Krog reside in there for a while. Stu reluctantly does so and scurries off. Mal then grins and asks for some more milk.

=== Chapter 35: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, Nan shouts as everyone else disperses. Gabe hands out more potions to the other townspeople. Stu locks Krog up in the local jail, and Inka hands out some melons, notable for being the last ones harvested before the vexes started rotting them. Once Mal is able to stand, Nan has Chug drink the entire second bucket of milk to cure him from weakness. No more illagers are found in Cornucopia, so Lenna and company decide to seal off the trapdoor that was in Krog’s house, while the Elders do the best they can to make sure the loot from the illagers is distributed evenly. Thoughts begin to appear in Lenna’s head about her future, knowing that she’ll be labeled as disrespectful and a shrieker if she heads back home, and that she might have to get rid of Poppy. Lenna and company then head over to Mal’s cottage, with Lenna asking Mal if Nan could take her up as an apprentice.

=== Epilogue: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he mentions that the Elders aren’t sure as to what to do with Krog in the long term now that he is in jail, but realizes that its basically none of his business. Chug is also amazed at Tok because he made a potion that worked as an antidote, reverting the crops back to what they originally were. After Chug tells the story of what happened to the townspeople, with Nan’s backing, they seem more interested. After taking the minecarts back to the woodland mansion to collect Thingy, the Elders are shown both the minecart track and the woodland mansion, looking completely flabbergasted at the size of it. Just then, the town votes to open up the wall for the first time. Now, it has a gate that is guarded by a sentry, but outside also has houses, gardens, and even a few wolves that Lenna taught the townspeople how to tame. Speaking of Lenna, she is now living with Nan as her apprentice. Nan even met up with Lenna’s family one day and gave them an earful about what actually happened. As for Chug and Tok, their parents were initially angry, but soon became supportive after hearing their story. Tok now works at his crafting table instead of being out on the farm, and Chug also works with him, selling whatever Tok crafts whilst teaching the townspeople about how to ride pigs. Clarity and Candor, Tok’s pet cats, soon give birth to some kittens. Although Mal still works on her family farm to bring the cows out to pasture, her schedule is much different now. Instead of going out to play afterward, she runs past the Hub and outside the gate into New Cornucopia, where everything is under an endless sky. Chug realizes that once he and his friends become Elders that they’ll pass on their story of how they saved Cornucopia, and remind the kids that they’ll always have some spirit of adventure inside them, knowing that once someone sees what’s beyond the wall, that they can’t look back.

=== Epilogue, Continued: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he mentions to the reader that he now has a machine that can hurl pumpkins, but also says that Chug basically already told as to how the story ended, and tells the reader to go on their own adventure, find their own Mob Squad, and to take a kitten wherever they go.