<noinclude>{{fiction|first|section|Minecraft: Mobestiary}}</noinclude>
{{orphan}}
{{WIP}}
=== Preface ===
The Naturalist ponders on the wonders and dangers of the world and explorers such as himself traversing it. He claims to have collected countless records of every creature from the Overworld, Nether, and End. The naturalist decides to put his knowledge of said creatures along with information from other explorers and scientists into an encyclopedia which he calls the Mobestiary. He ends saying that it's time for him to retire from being an explorer to compile his life's work for the benefit newer explorers.

== Passive Mobs ==
The Naturalist introduces passive mobs referring to them as gentle creatures that are often the source of useful items.

=== [[Bat]] ===
Fig. I. Field sketch of a pair of bats in flight.

Sketch notes: "Oversized ears allow superior hearing." "Eyes are small and poorly developed." "Dark skin allow the bat to flutter unseen in the gloom." " Leathery wings make a distinctive flapping sound while in flight."

The Naturalist introduces the bat stating that though one might see them as evil, research has shown that they are harmless and that it's better to think of them as flying mice, squeaking for the purpose of echolocation.
They go on to explain that bats live in dark places such as caves and that they are easily startled. The Naturalist shares a witness of a bat flying directly into lava out of panic. Health and swiftness facts are then explained. A bat pet will leave unless named with a name tag and if one wants to stop bats from appearing in dark places (in a house) to brightly light the area so the bats feel too uncomfortable to settle. They then explain that bats will venture out into lighter places somewhere between October 20 and November 3, some fancying that ghouls and witches come out at night at this time. Some adventurers use bats to hear where secret chambers are by listening for their squeaks through blocks.

=== [[Chicken]] ===
Fig. II. A group of chickens spotted in a plains biome, with sketch of dissected chicken showing egg production system.

Sketch notes: "Unblinking, beady eyes suggest a more sinister intent than might be first obvious." "The wings are underdeveloped, and the chicken is not a very strong flier." "Eggs are produced at intervals of five to ten minutes." "The chicken's wide beak allows for loud squawking and maximum seed intake."

The Naturalist introduces the chicken stating that they are fearless and friendly to adventurers unless attacked where they run in alarm. the chicken is usually used for its feathers and its meat.

=== [[Cow]] ===
Fig. III. A happy family of cows with a newborn calf.

Sketch notes: "The hide is fairly tough - cows drop leather which can be crafted into several useful items." "A large mouth and nose result in heavy breathing and deep mooing." "Long legs allow for hasty escape against potential dangers." "Sizeable loins make the cow an excellent source of steak."

=== [[Mooshroom]] ===
Fig. IV. A family of grazing mooshrooms, with dissected view to show the mooshroom's milk and mushroom soup production systems.

Sketch notes: "Milk and mushroom soup production systems are located toward bottom rear of mooshroom." "Mushroom growth across back appears to cause the creature no discomfort." "The mooshrooms have the same long legs and fleshy loins as the cow."

=== [[Pig]] ===
Fig. V. Field sketch of a family of pigs.

Sketch notes: "A large, flat nose aids the pig's keen sense of smell - essential to sniff outsources of food." "Of stocky build due to its healthy appetite, the pig is an excellent source of pork." "Four short legs - the pig is no speedy beast."

The naturalist introduces the pig by telling us that the pigs drop a valuable source of food: the porkchop, which each pig will drop up to 3 of. They start explaining that to breed pigs, you need either two carrots, beetroots, or potatoes. It will take a full day for the new baby pig to grow into a full grown adult. When it is not fully grown, the baby pig will not drop any meat and cannot be bred with other pigs. Feeding baby pigs will help them grow faster. Next, the Naturalist tells us the history of riding the pig and how we can ride the pig. Pigs may be ridden if you have a saddle. The earliest pig-riders had no control over where their pig went, but they invented a way of guiding their pig: the carrot on a stick. Simply hold the carrot in front of you and the pig will eagerly go towards the carrot. The naturalist states that the pig will break the riders' fall but will die in the process. The pig does not travel particularly quickly, but if you let the pig have a bite of the carrot, it will double its speed for 40 seconds. Most carrots on sticks only last around 3 bites. Finally, the naturalist goes onto explaining the history of pigs. There are two main legends: One legend tells the story of a humanoid and intelligent species of pig which lived in the overworld at one time. No such creatures can be found today, and yet we must consider the existence of the zombie pigman. Most people think that pigs are descendants of zombie pigman- and that proof lies in the fact that if a pig is struck by lightning, it will transform into a zombie pigman. The second legend states that when the pig was created, a godly experiment went badly wrong and created the creeper. Apparently, there are some people that insist it has roots in the truth.

=== [[Rabbit]] ===
Fig. VI. A herd of rabbits. Note the killer bunny on the left.

Sketch notes: "The killer bunny's eyes are narrowed with hatred." "The rabbit's delicate button-nose is capable of picking up the scent of carrots from some distance." "The muted color of the rabbit's coat allows it to blend into the natural landscape." the rabbits long ears are used to hear predators. the rabbit also uses its legs to leap away when startled. 

the rabbit is usually found in flower forests, snow plains, and deserts. for ages rabbits have been hunted for their useful hide Aswell as their raw meat. there feet are also used to brew potions of leaping. there was also an endangered species of killer bunny this species can only be found in captivity. rabbits love snacking on carrots when rabbits start eating carrots it most likely means that its breeding season.  

=== [[Sheep]] ===
Fig. VII.

A herd of humble sheep, one of which has recently been sheared.

=== [[Squid]] ===
Fig. VIII. Dissected squid with brain and ink production system clearly visible.

=== [[Villager]] ===
Fig. IX. A brown-robed farmer sketched during a visit to my nearest NPC village.