{{Disambig}}

'''''[[Minecraft]]''''' typically refers to the game in general. It may also refer to:

== Editions ==
{{main|Edition}}
* {{JE}}: the original edition for Windows, macOS, and Linux.
* {{BE}}: the edition for Windows, ChromeOS, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire, Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S, Nintendo Switch, PS4, and PS5, under the name ''Minecraft''.
* {{el|ee}}: the edition for classrooms.
* {{el|ce}}: the edition for mainland China.
* ''[[Minecraft 4k]]'': the under 4 kibibytes version of the game made for the 2010 Java 4K contest.
* {{el|mcedu}}: the discontinued edition for classrooms.
* {{el|lce}}: the discontinued edition for various consoles (Xbox 360, Xbox One (legacy version), PS3, PS4 (legacy version), PS Vita, PS TV, Wii U, and Nintendo Switch (legacy version)).
* {{el|pi}}: the discontinued edition for the Raspberry Pi.
* {{el|ds}}: the discontinued edition for the New Nintendo 3DS/2DS systems.

== Other games==
* [[Demo Mode]]: the ''Minecraft'' demo versions.
* {{el|sm}}: the narrative-driven video game.
** {{el|sm2}}: the sequel to ''Minecraft: Story Mode''.
* {{el|mce}}: a discontinued augmented reality (AR) mobile game spin-off.
* {{el|mcd}}: an action-adventure role-playing game spin-off.
** [[MCD:Arcade|''Minecraft Dungeons Arcade'']]: an arcade adaptation of ''Minecraft Dungeons''.
* {{el|mcl}}: an real-time action strategy game spin-off.

== Miscellaneous ==
* [[Minecraft (franchise)|''Minecraft'' (franchise)]]: the ''Minecraft'' franchise.
* ''[[Minecraft Launcher]]'': the game downloader and launcher for ''Java Edition'' and one of the game  downloaders and launchers for Bedrock Edition and ''Minecraft Dungeons''.
** [[MCD:Launcher|''Minecraft Dungeons Launcher'']]: was one of the game downloaders and launchers for ''Minecraft Dungeons''.
* [[.minecraft]]: the Java edition game data folder.
* [[Minecraft (song)]]: the soundtrack name for one of the music tracks in the game.
* [[Minecraft 2.0]]: a joke update made for April Fools 2013.
*''[[Minecraft: The Story of Mojang]]'', a 2012 documentary created by 2 Player Productions about the history and development of Mojang Studios
* ''[[A Minecraft Movie]]'': a film adaptation of the game that was released on April 4, 2025.
* [[Advancement#Minecraft|Minecraft]]: an advancement by getting a crafting table in your inventory.
* [[Minecraft: Official Magazine]]: the official magazine of ''Minecraft''.
* [[Minecraft (Dark Horse Comics)]]: a graphic novel series based on the video game.
* [[Minecraft Hour of Code]]: a tutorial designed to introduce the player to programming logic.
* [[Minecraft books]]: a series of guidebooks for ''Minecraft''.
* [[Minecraft Plus!]]: a {{W|screensaver}} app and website for an April Fools 2021 joke.
* [[Minecraft (Step into Reading series)]]: a children's book series based on the video game.
* ''[[Minecraft: Builders & Biomes]]'': a board game published by Mojang Studios and Ravensburger.
* ''[[Minecraft Card Game]]'': a card game published by Mojang Studios and Mattel Games.

==Other uses==
* [[Minecraft.net]]: Official website for ''Minecraft''.
* [[A Minecraft Movie]]

[[ja:Minecraft (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[ko:Minecraft (동음이의)]]
[[nl:Minecraft (doorverwijzing)]]
[[pl:Minecraft (ujednoznacznienie)]]
[[pt:Minecraft (desambiguação)]]
[[ru:Minecraft (значения)]]
[[zh:Minecraft（消歧义）]]