{{Italic title|Minecraft}}
{{rewrite}}
{{Infobox series|image=none|genre=* Action-adventure
* Video game|developers=[[Mojang Studios]]|premiere=''[[Minecraft]]''|years=2009–present|owner=[[Microsoft]]}}

'''''Minecraft''''' is a franchise that refers to the collection of official ''Minecraft'' media such as characters, video games, screen media, print media, websites, and merchandise released by [[Mojang Studios]] or their collaborators.

== Games ==
=== ''Minecraft'' ===
'''{{MC}}''' is a 3D sandbox game developed by [[Mojang Studios]]. It was fully released on November 18, 2011. It overtook {{Wikipedia|Tetris}} around the year 2017 with over 300 million copies and being sold to {{Wikipedia|Microsoft}} for $2.4 billion (£2 billion in the UK). This is to be expanded on.

===''Minecraft Reality''===
'''''[[Minecraft Reality]]''''' - augmented reality app developed by 13thLab, based on Minecraft released in November 25, 2012 and was discontinued for unknown reasons.

===''Minecraft: Story Mode''===
'''{{MCSM}}''' was an episodic point-and-click narrative-driven graphic adventure video game based on the sandbox video game {{MC}}, released in October 2015 across multiple platforms with a {{w|Microsoft Store}} ({{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}) release on December 16, 2015, a {{w|Wii U}} release on January 21, 2016, a {{w|tvOS}} release on August 24, 2016, a {{w|Nintendo Switch}} release on August 22, 2017, and a {{w|Netflix}} release on November 27, 2018. The game was developed by [[Mojang Studios]], the developer of ''Minecraft'', in collaboration with [[Telltale Games]]. Music for the game was composed by Anadel, an atmospheric folk band based in California. The game follows the episodic format that Telltale Games has used for its previous titles, where player choices and actions have significant effects on later story elements. The game is discontinued as of June 25, 2019, due to the closure of Telltale Games on October 11, 2018.

====''Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two''====
'''{{el|sm2}}''' was an episodic point-and-click narrative-driven graphic adventure {{w|video game}} based on the sandbox video game ''Minecraft'', released in July 2017 across multiple platforms, with a {{w|Nintendo Switch}} release on November 6, 2018. The game was developed by [[Mojang Studios]], the developer of ''Minecraft'', in collaboration with [[Telltale Games]]. Music for the game was also composed by Anadel, an atmospheric folk band based in California. The game follows the episodic format that Telltale has used for its previous titles, where player choices and actions have significant effects on later story elements. The game is discontinued as of June 25, 2019, due to the closure of Telltale Games on October 11, 2018.

===''Minecraft Earth'' ===
'''{{mce}}''' was a free-to-play {{w|augmented reality}} mobile game for {{w|iOS}}, {{w|iPadOS}}, and {{w|Android (operating system)|Android}}, based around building structures and collecting materials by traveling to real-life locations. Released worldwide on December 11, 2019 after a months-long closed beta, [[Minecraft Earth]] was discontinued on June 30, 2021, citing the {{w|COVID-19 pandemic}} as a factor.

===''Minecraft Dungeons''===
'''{{mcd}}''' is an action-adventure role-playing game developed by [[Mojang Studios]], {{w|Xbox Game Studios}} and [[Double Eleven]]. It was released on May 26, 2020, for {{w|Microsoft Windows|Windows}}, {{w|Xbox One}}, {{w|Nintendo Switch}}, and {{w|PlayStation 4}}, September 15, 2020, for {{w|Xbox Cloud Gaming}}, on November 10, 2020, for the {{w|Xbox Series X and Series S|Xbox Series X&#124;S}}, and on September 22, 2021, for Steam for Windows.

====''Minecraft Dungeons Arcade''====
[[MCD:Arcade|'''''Minecraft Dungeons Arcade''''']] is an arcade adaptation of ''Minecraft Dungeons'' developed by [[Mojang Studios]] and [[Play Mechanix]]. It was released in the third quarter of 2021.

===''Minecraft Legends''===
'''{{MCL}}''' is a real-time action strategy game developed by [[Mojang Studios]], {{w|Xbox Game Studios}}, and {{w|Blackbird Interactive}}. It was released on April 18, 2023.

=== ''Minecraft Blast'' ===
'''''[[Minecraft Blast]]''''' is an upcoming mobile puzzle game with no set release date, being developed by [[Mojang Studios]] and [[King]].

===''Minecraft Hour of Code''===
The '''''[[Minecraft Hour of Code]]''''' web page lists 4 ''Minecraft'' games: 
*''Minecraft Adventurer''
*''Minecraft Designer''
*''Minecraft Hero's Journey''
*''Minecraft Voyage Aquatic''
These all came from [[Minecraft Education]] (former name Minecraft Education Edition). (Copyrighted by [https://code.org Code.org] and Microsoft).

=== ''Choose Your Mode'' ===
'''''[[Choose Your Mode]]''''' - an  augmented reality '''(AR)''' game developed as a result of the [[Crocs]] collaboration, which has two modes: construction and an endless runner in which player can collect jibbitz blocks.

=== ''Oreo x A Minecraft Movie Experience'' ===
'''''{{AMCM|Oreo x A Minecraft Movie Experience}}''''' - an online region-locked augmented reality '''(AR)''' game developed as a result of the {{AMCM|Oreo}} collaboration, in which the player is given the opportunity to walk around {{AMCM|Steve's Secret Stash}} and interact with objects in it.

=== ''A Minecraft Movie Happy Meal'' ===
'''''{{AMCM|A Minecraft Movie Happy Meal}}''''' - is an online video game created as a result of the collaboration {{AMCM|McDonald's|McDonald's x A Minecraft Movie}}, in which the player must collect resources and craft items from the movie.

==Media==
===Films===
====''Minecraft: The Story of Mojang''====
'''''[[Minecraft: The Story of Mojang]]''''' is a 2012 documentary created by 2 Player Productions about the history and development of [[Mojang Studios]]. It was directed by Paul Owens and produced by Paul Levering, Peter De Bourcier and Burnie Burns, with additional funding given through a Kickstarter campaign. The movie was announced on February 21, 2011, was streamed on Xbox Live on December 22, 2012, and publicly released on other platforms, including The Pirate Bay, the next day.

====''A Minecraft Movie'' ====
'''''[[A Minecraft Movie]]''''' is a 2025 action-adventure live-action/CGI hybrid film based on the video game ''Minecraft''. It was directed by Jared Hess and written by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer, Neil Widener, Gavin James, and Chris Galletta, based on a story by Allison Schroeder, Bowman, and Palmer, and was released on April 4, 2025 by {{w|Warner Bros. Pictures}}.

===Series===

====''Minecraft Mini-Series''====
The '''''[[Minecraft Mini-Series]]''''' is an action/adventure animated web series based on [[Mojang Studios]]'s ''Minecraft''. The series is produced by Mojang Studios and {{w|Xbox Game Studios}} in collaboration with {{w|Atomic Cartoons}} and {{w|Mattel#Mattel Creations|Mattel Creations}}, with Christopher Keenan serving as executive producer, and premiered on October 26, 2017, on the Mattel Action [[YouTube]] channel, with the final episode being released on May 10, 2018.

====''Minecraft Animated Series''====
'''[[Minecraft Animated Series]]''' - an upcoming Minecraft series {{Wikipedia|Netflix}} being created that according to the creators will tell an original story with new characters and reflect the world of Minecraft in a new light”.<ref>[https://variety.com/2024/tv/news/minecraft-animated-series-netflix-1236019300/ ‘Minecraft’ Animated Series in the Works at Netflix Featuring New Characters] – Variety; May 30, 2024</ref>

===Novels===
{{main|Minecraft Novels}}

The '''''Minecraft Official Novels''''' are a series of novels for ''[[Minecraft]]''. The novels are written by various authors.

===Children's books===
====''Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles''====
'''''[[Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles]]''''' is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Luke Flowers, Alan Batson, and Chris Hill.

====''Minecraft: Stonesword Saga''====
'''''[[Minecraft: Stonesword Saga]]''''' is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Alan Batson and Chris Hill.

====''Minecraft: Ironsword Academy''====
'''''[[Minecraft: Ironsword Academy]]''''' is an ongoing series of children's books written by Caleb Zane Huett and illustrated by Alan Batson and Chris Hill.

====Step into Reading series====
'''''[[Minecraft (Step into Reading series)|Minecraft]]''''' is a series of children's books written by Nick Eliopulos and illustrated by Alan Batson.

====''Mobs of Minecraft''====
'''''[[Mobs of Minecraft]]''''' is a series of children's books written by Christy Webster and illustrated by Alan Batson.

===Board games===

====''Minecraft: Builders & Biomes''====
'''''[[Minecraft: Builders & Biomes]]''''' is a board game published by Mojang Studios and {{w|Ravensburger}}. In the game, players explore the Overworld and build structures while defeating hostile mobs, with the goal being to score as many experience points as possible. Players are also allowed to collect blocks and weapons.

====''Minecraft: Heroes of the Village''====
'''''[[Minecraft: Heroes of the Village]]''''' is a board game published by Mojang Studios and Ravensburger. In the game, players work together to defend a village from an illager raid by constructing buildings in the village. Players are also able to collect blocks and fight mobs.

====''Minecraft: Portal Dash''====
'''''[[Minecraft: Portal Dash]]''''' is a board game published by Mojang Studios and Ravensburger. In the game, the player(s) attempt(s) to get to a nether portal to escape from the Nether. Players may also fight hostile mobs.

===Other===

====Dark Horse Comics series====
'''''[[Minecraft (Dark Horse Comics)|Minecraft]]''''' is a graphic novel series based on the video game of the same name, published by {{w|Dark Horse Comics}} in partnership with Mojang Studios.

====''Minecraft Card Game''====
The '''''[[Minecraft Card Game]]''''' is a card game published by Mojang Studios and Mattel Games. In the game, players "mine" resource cards so they can be used to "craft" craft cards, which in turn can be used to craft tools to collect points.

==== ''Minecraft: The Manga'' ====
'''''[[Minecraft: The Manga]]''''' is an ongoing [[wikipedia:Manga|manga]] series written by Kazuyoshi Seto. Originally published by [[wikipedia:Shogakukan|Shogakukan]] as '''''Minecraft: Journey to the World's End''''' ([[wikipedia:Japanese language|Japanese]]: <span lang="ja"><ruby>MINECRAFT<rt>マインクラフト</rt></ruby>〜世界の果てへの旅〜</span>, [[wikipedia:Hepburn romanization|Hepburn]]: <i lang="ja-Latn">Mainkurafuto: Sekai no Hate e no Tabi</i>) in Japan, it is licensed and translated to English by [[wikipedia:Viz Media|Viz Media]].

==Merchandise==
{{main|Merchandise}}
Various official merchandise for ''Minecraft'' has been released, including merchandise collaborations with brands such as [[LEGO]], [[Youtooz]], and [[Hot Wheels]].

== See also ==
*[[Character]]
*[[Minecraft in popular culture]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== External links ==
*[https://minecraft.net minecraft.net]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Minecraft (franchise)|all}}

[[Category:Minecraft (franchise)| ]]

[[de:Lizenzvermarktung]]
[[es:Minecraft (franquicia)]]
[[it:Minecraft (franchise)]]
[[ja:Minecraft (シリーズ)]]
[[pt:Minecraft (franquia)]]
[[ru:Minecraft (франшиза)]]
[[tr:Minecraft (seri)]]
[[uk:Minecraft (франшиза)]]