<noinclude>{{fiction|third|chapter|Minecraft: The Mountain}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 12 ===

Guy mentions to the reader that the next month with Summer was basically the same routine: heading to the Nether to get some glowstone. At the tail end of the month, Guy seems to be getting tired of dipping into the lake every time after they leave the Nether, but on this day in particular, he does so, and soon notices a fish wriggling past his leg. The two also notice some plants growing along the river bottom, with Guy excited that the world had gone through a "change". Guy then mentions to the reader about the world "changes" he had gone through, such as oars being a part of boats, or being able to craft shields. Guy wants to explore the world to find out if there were any additional "changes", but Summer mentions to Guy that they need to finish lighting the mountain. Summer also mentions to Guy that he should check out "the Ice Cube" which is located in a Nether fortress. Guy agrees, and the two prepare to head back to the Nether tomorrow. After dinner, Guy questions to himself about the paintings, wondering how he and Summer ended up with the same canvases.

=== Chapter 13 ===

The next day, in the Nether, Guy asks Summer as to where they think they are, and Summer says that they are in a video game. Summer asks Guy if he had the "screen-typing-computer" dream last night, and Guy responds excitedly that he did. Summer explains to Guy of two scenarios that may have occurred; either (A) they were pulled into the game against their will, or (B) that they volunteered as game testers or designers, plugging their heads into a computer and wiping their memories. Guy wonders if it’s a world made to look like a video game, but Summer rejects that possibility, saying that instead it would’ve been "a simulation of our world" with "less of everything". The two then have a discussion about respecting each other’s beliefs when they are interrupted by magma cubes. Guy attempts to kill them by himself, but is overwhelmed by the much smaller ones, so Summer assists him with killing them. Not long after, Summer shows Guy "the Ice Cube", which is not part of a Nether fortress as previously believed, but is instead something that Summer had built as a place to "cool down".

=== Chapter 14 ===

Guy asks Summer if "the Ice Cube" is made out of quartz, to which she nods in approval. They head inside it, which consists of packed snow in the middle. A room connected to it consists of supply chests, groups of potatoes, a jukebox, and a cauldron. Guy then asks Summer if they could use the redstone lamps in here, as well as the glowstone they have, to finish lighting the mountain. Summer says that she considered it, but realized that it’s just a fraction of what they need. She then says that she built this place to cool down as she flicks a lever, which causes a wall of gravel to fall, revealing a Nether fortress in the middle of a lava ocean. The two soon leave "the Ice Cube" to check out the Nether fortress, but soon get in combat with a blaze. As Guy distracts it, Summer swiftly kills it using her bow and arrow. The two then head off to find a blaze spawner in the fortress.

=== Chapter 15 ===

Guy and Summer get into combat with another blaze, getting a blaze rod from it. The two then find a blaze spawner, which, of course, spawns a blaze. They kill it, getting another blaze rod. Instead of destroying the spawner, Guy and Summer seal it off with netherrack. Summer explains to Guy that it’s better to seal it off because Blazes drop blaze rods, which not only power brewing stands, but can also be used for potions. The two decide to explore the Nether fortress a bit more, stumbling upon a chest containing gold ingots and diamonds, and also getting into a tussle with some wither skeletons. They eventually find a glowstone cluster, getting some glowstone dust, and soon head back to "the Ice Cube". Feeling tired, Guy decides to set up a bed. Summer tries to stop him from sleeping in it, but quickly realizes that she was too late.

=== Chapter 16 ===

As soon as Guy touches the bed, it explodes, taking him off his feet, as well as  destroying a bit of "the Ice Cube". Guy offers to help Summer repair it, but she refuses, saying to Guy that he needs to take care of his wounds. Guy then notices a pile of glowstone dust, realizing that Sunmer had lied to him about finding glowstone whilst some was already available in "the Ice Cube". Guy attempts to talk to Summer about this, but having been caught in the act, Summer pleads to Guy not to leave, but soon has a nervous breakdown, eventually saying to Guy that she is sick of him. Irate, Guy leaves, goes through the nether portal, and decides to rest back in the guest room for the night, feeling sad and angry. The next morning, Guy decides to leave the mountain and start over, eventually finding some sweet berry bushes. Guy also stumbles across some foxes, sheep, and cows, acting as if he were engaging in conversation with them. Guy soon realizes that it was wrong for him to leave Summer behind, and soon heads back to the mountain. However, he isn’t able to find Summer anywhere, quickly realizing that she is still in the Nether.

=== Chapter 17 ===

Guy decides to sleep another night, hopeful that Summer will show up the following day. However, she doesn’t, so Guy decides to head back into the Nether to find her. He heads back to "the Ice Cube", but with no sign of Summer, not to mention that he also got into a tussle with some zombie pigmen. Eventually, Guy notices some blazes spawning at the nearby nether fortress, and decides to find her there, eventually getting into combat with hostile mobs such as the aforementioned blazes, as well as skeletons and wither skeletons. Eventually, Guy is close to death at the hands of a wither skeleton, but Summer comes in to save him, killing said skeleton with her diamond axe. Summer asks Guy as to what he’s doing here, and Guy says that he’s rescuing her.