=== Survival Mode! ===

Emmy and Birch, along with Birch’s tame wolf, Byte, are in the [[Overworld]]. As Birch and Byte play around in some [[Sunflower|sunflowers]] nearby, Emmy plans to climb to the top of a nearby mountain dubbed "[[Mount Farview]]", with Birch concurring. The two then punch out some [[Log|logs]] from a nearby [[tree]] to craft into [[planks]], which in turn are used to craft a [[Crafting Table|crafting table]]. After Emmy crafts some [[Tool|wooden tools]], everyone starts heading toward Mount Farview. They notice a [[spider]] nearby, but it doesn’t attack as the sun is still out. Not long after, Emmy, Birch, and Byte arrive at the base of the mountain, and decide to gather some more supplies. Emmy uses her [[axe]] to knock [[Apple|apples]] off a nearby oak tree, while Birch uses his [[Wooden Pickaxe|wooden pickaxe]] to gather [[cobblestone]]. The pickaxe soon breaks, but Emmy then crafts Birch a stone pickaxe. As everyone begins to climb Mount Fairview, the sun begins to set, so they decide to build a shelter. Birch mines out cobblestone while Emmy uses it build a house. Just then, a [[skeleton]] fires [[Arrow|arrows]] at them, but is killed with ease. More hostile mobs soon appear, like [[Zombie|zombies]] and [[Creeper|creepers]], but all are killed by daybreak. Emmy, Birch, and Byte then finish climbing up Mount Farview, overlooking numerous [[Biome|biomes]] in the distance as the narrator mentions that their adventure was just getting started.

=== Mobs in the Overworld! ===

As Birch plays fetch with his tame wolf, Byte, near a village, Emmy plans on getting a pet of her own, so they decide to go exploring around the Overworld. They first come across mobs such as [[Cow|cows]] and [[Chicken|chickens]], but Birch remarks that they belong to the villagers as they are in an enclosed space. Emmy agrees, and so the two continue exploring. Coming to a [[taiga]] biome, they find some [[Rabbit|rabbits]] and a [[fox]]. Emmy acknowledges that the rabbits are cute, but is worried about taking one from a family. Byte ends up scaring away the fox. Birch then spots a [[Bee Nest|bee nest]] and starts to knock it off of the tree with his [[pickaxe]]. Emmy warns him to stop, but by then, it was too late. A group of angry bees then chase everyone out of the woods and into a nearby [[cave]], where they come across spiders, [[silverfish]], [[Bat|bats]], and numerous hostile mobs such as zombies and [[Slime|slimes]]. Exiting the cave, the three protagonists then come across a [[panda]] in a [[jungle]], who sneezes at them, leaving behind a [[slimeball]].

They soon head into the [[ocean]], where they find mobs such as [[Dolphin|dolphins]] and [[drowned]], and then into the [[ice]] and [[snow]], finding a [[stray]] and some [[Polar Bear|polar bears]]. Not long after, Emmy, Birch, and Byte come across a [[swamp]], where they notice a [[Cat|black cat]], but a [[witch]] begins throwing [[Potion|potions]] at the three from nearby, leaving them no choice but to run off. As they leave the swamp, a creeper blows up right by them, making a crater in the ground. Emmy begins to worry that she might not be able to find an animal to be her pet, but a [[horse]] just happens to be nearby. Birch crafts a [[lead]] using [[string]] from a spider and the slimeball from the panda, while Emmy walks slowly over to the horse. Emmy then takes the lead from Birch while he feeds the horse an apple. As Emmy puts a saddle on the horse and climbs on it, she decides to call the horse "[[Ink (character)|Ink]]". Emmy and Ink then gallop across the Overworld as Birch and Byte run alongside them.

=== Escape from the Nether! ===

Emmy, Birch, and their wolf, Byte, are in the Overworld. Emmy is wearing a [[Golden Helmet|golden helmet]] and some [[Golden Boots|golden boots]], while Birch has an [[Iron Sword|iron sword]]. The two decide to play fetch with Byte by throwing a stick into a nearby [[forest]]. Although Byte chases after it, Emmy and Birch soon realize that Byte has disappeared and start calling its name as they head toward the forest. Beneath some trees, the two soon find a [[nether portal]]. Feeling that Byte may have gone through it, Emmy and Birch decide to go through it as well, spawning in a [[Warped Forest|warped forest]] in the Nether. Climbing a [[Twisting Vines|vine]] to get a better view of their surroundings, the two also notice a [[Crimson Forest|crimson forest]], a huge swath of [[netherrack]], and "an ocean of [[lava]]". Emmy then puts some [[warped fungus]] into her inventory as she and Birch head over to the crimson forest. Suddenly, the two are surrounded by [[Piglin|piglins]]. They attack Birch but avoid Emmy as she is wearing a gold helmet and a pair of gold boots. Emmy then gives Birch her gold helmet so she no longer can be attacked by piglins.

The two then follow the piglins over to a bastion remnant, where the two soon find "a treasure room filled with [[Gold Ingot|gold]]". Opening a [[chest]] in the room ends up provoking the piglins, however, so Emmy and Birch escape by making a hole in the wall. The escape quickly becomes tricky, however, due to them ending up in a [[Soul Sand Valley|soul sand valley]]. As skeletons fire at them, the two find a nether portal across a river of lava. Birch feels as if they are trapped, but Emmy soon notices some [[Strider|striders]]. They saddle them and climb on top, but the striders don’t move. Emmy then attempts to use a [[Carrot on a Stick|carrot on a stick]], but it doesn’t work. As the mobs close in on them, Birch suggests to use the warped fungus to craft a [[Warped Fungus on a Stick|warped fungus on a stick]]. Emmy does so, and just as she has the fungus in front of the strider’s face, they begin to run across the lava. Emmy and Birch quickly head toward the nether portal, where they notice Byte on the other side, and soon go through it. Now safe in the Overworld, the two decide to play fetch with Byte once again.

=== The Sky’s the Limit! ===

Emmy and Birch are seen jumping on their [[Bed|beds]] in their house, as their wolf, Byte, happily watches them. Birch feels like that they could jump higher, and Emmy says that she has an idea. She gathers sixteen [[Slime Block|slime blocks]] and then places them outside on the ground. The two them jump on the slime blocks, realizing that they can bounce really high. Birch, however, feels like he wants to fly, so Emmy heads back in the house and takes out a pair of [[elytra]] from a chest. Birch happily puts them on as Emmy says that he’ll be able to fly with them. Birch is so excited that he leaps off the cliff before Emmy could warn him that the elytra were broken, and Birch ends up falling to the slime blocks below. Emmy then realizes that they would need to kill a [[phantom]] in order to repair the elytra, so Birch destroys the beds in their house before the two go on an adventure, killing numerous mobs. On the third night, the two have a picnic with Byte under the moon and stars, but a phantom soon swoops down at them. It is soon killed, however, and drops a [[Phantom Membrane|phantom membrane]], which Emmy uses to repair the elytra. Birch then happily flies around with it, noticing several things such as a [[Mountains|mountain]] and a [[Desert Pyramid|desert pyramid]]. He then heads back to Emmy to inform her of everything he saw, and the two decide to go on another adventure.

=== Mobs in the Mansion! ===

Emmy, Birch, and their pet wolf, Byte, are deep in a cave. Emmy collected three [[Diamond|diamonds]] and places them in her inventory. As the three leave the cave, Emmy brings up the idea of crafting a [[Diamond Pickaxe|diamond pickaxe]], saying that it could be used to mine anything. Byte then sniffs out a [[Dark oak|dark oak tree]], noting that they also need [[Stick|sticks]] to craft it. Birch then punches the tree, breaking it into blocks of wood, and then Emmy turns the wood into wooden planks and sticks, followed by crafting a crafting table, and then successfully craft the diamond pickaxe. Birch then looks around, soon realizing that they are in a [[Dark Forest|dark forest]], and the three soon spot a woodland mansion nearby. They head inside, but are soon attacked by an [[evoker]] upon reaching the second floor, which summons a few [[Vex|vexes]]. Although Emmy and Byte kill the vexes, the evoker summons fangs to attack them, and Emmy decides to search around the mansion for something that could aid them in killing the evoker. Birch agrees, and soon after, they find a jail cell.

Upon Emmy opening the door, an [[allay]] flies out, followed by a [[vindicator]] lunging at Birch with its iron axe. Birch uses his diamond pickaxe to attack the vindicator, but it is blocked by the axe, so he and Emmy have no choice but to run off. The vindicator and evoker eventually catch up to them, however, so the two plan to escape. Birch decides to distract them, while Emmy begins mining her way through a wall, revealing a secret room with a handful of [[obsidian]]. She mines at it with the diamond pickaxe and soon finds a block of diamond incased in the obsidian. Emmy then uses the crafting table to break the block of diamond into nine diamonds, and then crafts two swords: one for herself, and one for Birch. With swords in hand, the two attack the vindicator and evoker, and both are soon killed with relative ease; the latter also drops a [[Totem of Undying|totem of undying]], which Birch picks up and puts into his hand. As they leave the mansion, Birch feels tired from battling the illagers, and soon walks off a cliff because he wasn’t looking as to where he was going. Fortunately, as Birch was holding the totem of undying, he was unharmed from the fall. The three (Emmy, Birch, and Byte) then celebrate by having a picnic in a nearby [[meadow]], and the allay they befriended even brings them some food to eat.

=== Trouble Brewing! ===

Emmy, Birch, and Byte, had just retuned from the Nether, having picked up some [[Nether Wart|nether wart]], two [[Golden Carrot|golden carrots]], a [[Mushroom|brown mushroom]], and a few [[Blaze Rod|blaze rods]] before going through the portal back to the Overworld. From there, Emmy mines some [[stone]], while Birch collects some wood from a nearby tree to craft into planks, followed by crafting the planks into a crafting table. A creeper then appears close by, about to explode, but Birch and Emmy kill it with ease, dropping [[gunpowder]]. As Birch bends down to pick up the gunpowder, the [[gravel]] that he, Emmy, and Byte were on gave way, making the three fall into a [[Canyon|ravine]]. Hostile mobs surround the three, but Emmy gets to work right away, crafting a [[Brewing Stand|brewing stand]] out of the blaze rod and cobblestone, followed by using another blaze rod as blaze powder for the brewing stand to brew two [[Potions of Night Vision|potions of night vision]], giving one to Birch while drinking the other, and she can now see the hostile mobs as if the sun was out.

Emmy goes after the witches, killing them with ease as they drop a [[Spider Eye|spider eye]] and [[sugar]], respectively. A skeleton and zombie then approach her, but an [[Invisibility|invisible]] person kills the skeleton. Birch shouts that it was him that killed it, explaining that he crafted a [[Fermented Spider Eye|fermented spider eye]] from the items that the witches had dropped, and brewed it with the potion of night vision to make a [[Potion|potion of invisibility]]. Emmy then mines out some [[coal]] and crafts as many [[Torch|torches]] as possible just before the potion effect wears off. Birch’s potion effect wears off as well, and the two place down torches to find their way out of the cave. Upon reaching the surface, they take the brewing stand home, brew up some [[potions of swiftness]] from the sugar that the witches had dropped, and race each other throughout the day.

=== Search for the Snowy Wolf! ===

While in the wooded badlands, Emmy crafts two brushes and uses them on an armadillo to collect some scutes. Birch then uses the scutes to craft wolf armor for Byte, Birch and Emmy’s tame wolf. However, Byte starts acting disinterested, and Birch thinks that Byte is hungry because its tail is droopy, but it is not interested in the steak. Birch then notices a striped wolf beneath an oak tree nearby, and considers taming it so it and Byte can become friends. Birch checks his inventory and notices that he has three bones, but instead decides to save them to find and tame "the rarest wolf", being the snowy wolf. Emily agrees, so she, Birch, and Byte head over to a snowy grove, eventually finding the snowy wolf.

Birch runs toward it as Emmy shouts at him to wait, but by then, it was too late. Birch accidentally hits the wolf with the bone, causing it to become angry. Byte defends Birch from being attacked, and they have no choice but to run back up the mountain. Now at a safe distance, Birch repairs Byte’s armor with some armadillo scutes that he collected. Emmy then tells Birch that the snowy wolf should be calm enough for it to be tamed, and Birch decides to go at it alone. He once again finds the snowy wolf, giving it the three bones that he has, and becomes tame upon taking the third bone. Birch decides to call the snowy wolf "Slush", saying that its fur "looks like melting snow". Byte then happily runs alongside Slush as the group prepare for their next adventure.

<noinclude>
[[Category:Fiction content]]
</noinclude>