<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles/Last Block Standing!}}</noinclude>

=== Prologue: Don’t Hold Your Breath for a Happy Ending ===

Six figures stand in the shadow of a huge tower, ready to take down the Evoker King inside of it.

=== Chapter 1: The Beginning of the End (and I’m Not Gonna Cry!) ===

In the world of Minecraft, the group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) decide to change back into their normal skins now that their dungeon crawl appeared to be a failure, sans Po, who is still using his wizard skin. They prepare to disconnect for the night when Ash notices the landscape shimmering off in the distance. She orders everyone to brace as the shimmer passes by the group, glitching in and out for a moment. Po then tries to change his skin, but says that he is unable to do so. Although Morgan feels uncertain, Ash says that they’ll find a way to stop him tomorrow. Back in the real world, Ash waves goodbye to her friends and begins to ride her bike home. As she pulls into the driveway, Ash notices her mother’s car, which is a bit unusual as her mother usually worked late. As Ash enters her home, her dad surprises her with a cake, while her mother says that she has some great news to share.

=== Chapter 2: Don’t Forget to Stop and Smell the Rainbows! (Though You Might Need to Bring a Stepladder.) ===

The next morning, Morgan feels anxious to return to the world of Minecraft, knowing that if he mentions anything odd to Doc about the VR goggles that she’ll likely end up dissecting them. Morgan also begins to theorize about who The Librarian in their Minecraft world might be while also realizing that they might have to end up finding her instead of her finding them. Morgan, Jodi, Harper, and Po start to wonder as to where Ash is as she is usually the first to arrive. Ash does eventually arrive, making it to homeroom mere seconds before the late bell rings. As Ms. Minerva starts taking attendance, Doc bursts into the classroom and tells everyone to look outside the window. The entire class notices a rainbow. Doc then asks as to how rainbows appear, and Jodi jokingly mentions that its because of leprechauns. Doc then sprints back to her homeroom as Ms. Minerva mentions to her about the frog incident from earlier in the year. A bit later, Morgan feeds Baron Sweetcheeks, the class’s pet hamster, as the bell rings. Ash then tells Morgan that she needs to talk to him about something, bringing up that her parents said to her last night that they would be moving away from Woodsword.

=== Chapter 3: Something Is Rotten in the State of Minecraft…. ===

Later on, the group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) are back in Minecraft, where they discuss about Ash’s situation as well as preparing to go against the Evoker King. Ash mentions that her mom is an engineer who generally works on the job site, hence the reason as to why they move a lot. Meanwhile, the group prepare to take down a wither as they plan to build a beacon to get the attention of The Librarian. Harper places down the three wither skeleton skulls on top of soul sand set up like a T-shape, but nothing happens. Everyone decides to check their tools, but those don’t seem to work either. The group begin to realize that the Evoker King might’ve actually broken Minecraft.

=== Chapter 4: It’s Still Minecraft! Just Without the Mining. Or the Crafting. Who Are We Kidding? It’s Broken. ===

Although Harper feels furious, Morgan begins to realize that he did remember one situation from way before they met. He mentions about a student named Dante who introduced him to Minecraft. Dante loved to re-create famous skyscrapers such as the Empire State Building. As the group decide to head back to their castle (despite the compass being useless), Morgan mentions that one day, Dante had built his own skyscraper and let Morgan see it for himself. Morgan then noticed that one of the gargoyles on the skyscraper had a gravel block instead of cobblestone like the others, but he wasn’t able to break it. It was then that Dante mentioned to him that he changed the settings of the game so that only he was able to remove and place blocks. Morgan begins to theorize that the foundation stone gives the Evoker King ownership of the Minecraft server that they are on, so to speak. In this case, the group is only allowed to place blocks, not remove them. Eventually, the group arrive at the torn down castle, but it had begun to rain. Jodi sees a horse off in the distance, but she screams when a lightning bolt strikes nearby, revealing it to be a skeleton horse. Another lightning bolt then strikes the horse, turning it into a skeleton horseman. Harper screams at the group to run.

=== Chapter 5: The Kids Are in Trouble. Make No Bones About It! ===

As the group run from the skeleton horseman, Morgan tries to use his diamond sword on it, but it doesn’t budge. He then gets shot in the chest with an arrow. Two more skeleton horseman spawn nearby from lightning strikes and move toward Morgan, but Ash pulls him away from them as the group head up to the stone platform on top of the castle. Morgan considers building a barrier around themselves, but Harper objects, knowing that they can’t break blocks. Jodi then suggests to build a barrier around the skeleton horseman, which they all agree to do. Morgan distracts the horseman while the rest build the barrier around them, which becomes successful. Just then, Po notices a tower built by the warning that The Librarian had left behind several months prior. Morgan sheepishly mentions that Dante would’ve loved it, so Jodi asks as to what happened to Dante. Morgan says that Dante ended up moving away.

=== Chapter 6: The Best Plans Involve Ghosts! Which Is Ironic, Because Ghosts Aren’t Big Planners. ===

The next day, at school in the real world, Harper, Morgan, Jodi, and Po arrive to school early, gathering beneath an oak tree in the schoolyard. They discuss about how to handle the situation with Ash likely moving away. Po suggests to put on a play showing that Ash’s house is haunted, but Harper believes that it’ll just make her family literally want to move away. Morgan suggests to convince her parents that the house is filled with termites, but Harper objects, saying that they would have to end up putting termites in Ash’s house. She then suggests to let Ash’s parents know that Baron would be depressed if they moved away, but Ash overhears everything, saying that it won’t work. Ash then says to the others that her mother’s job isn’t giving her any other options about the job itself. Ash then suggests that she take a set of VR goggles with her to be able to connect with the others in Minecraft when she moves away. Jodi feels happy despite the situation, yet Morgan mentions about the Evoker King. Ash then mentions, despite Harper’s dislike, that they’ll need help from Theo.

=== Chapter 7: The Enemy of My Enemy Is This Guy I Know. Let’s Give Him a Chance! ===

Later, Harper meets up with Theo (full name disclosed as Theo Grayson) after school in the library, reading books that were guides to computer programming. Harper asks Theo if he’s into that sort of thing, and he says that he is, but is currently looking over some sketches that he had made. Theo lets Harper look at them, seeing numerous redstone contraptions and several player skins, but she soon notices that some of the sketches resemble the four mobs that she and her group had fought in the dungeon when playing Minecraft. Theo takes the book away as he imagines a car honking at him and runs off, leaving Harper to wonder how Theo knew about the mobs. Later, in the computer lab, Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash assist Doc with setting up terrariums. Each of the terrariums has a single flower, enclosed in space that uses artificial sunlight as well as a precise amount of water once a day. 

Po wonders as to why Doc can’t just put them in sunlight and water them herself. She explains that a science experiment isn’t like real life, and that there will always be things happening that aren’t in someone’s own control. Doc also mentions, however, that there are things that can be controlled, such as choosing how to act to one another. Morgan then asks Harper if she was able to talk to Theo, and she says that she would try to talk to him another time. Her thoughts begin to race about him, wondering if putting someone who wasn’t really known in their world would make a big difference.