=== Prologue ===

Amy chokes on her words, saying that she didn’t mean to attack her brother, Marc, with her sword. Their mother is bandaging Marc’s arm, and Marc says to her that it isn’t her fault. The mother then says to the two that she warned them that going into the caves was dangerous, and Marc fibs that they barely went into the cave, while in actuality, they were deep in it and almost got lost. Amy looks at the floor, not knowing what to say or do as she knows that Marc is mad at her deep down. She then asks if she can go now, wondering if those bad feelings would go away.

=== Chapter 1 ===

Amy matters about six things in her life: peace, quiet, solitude, cake, her tools, and her pet cat, Tuna. One day, she is outside eating some cake when Tuna takes the last bite. Her mom then calls for her to clean her tools and to stop putting them in Marc’s room, as Marc is expected to return tonight from an adventure he went on with his friends. Amy suggests to put them in the shed, but her mom refuses as the shed is her dad’s "happy place". Amy then gives in and decides to clean her tools, not before taking half a loaf of bread as a snack for herself and Tuna.

=== Chapter 2 ===

Amy sighs at the sight of her broken-down tools in Marc’s room and starts cleaning them. She has a habit of collecting tools that other townsfolk have given up on, as she felt that those tools still had some use left in them. She finishes cleaning them within an hour and moves them to her room just as Marc returns home. He heads upstairs to Amy’s room, wondering about the shovels lined across the wall, and Amy notices him with a small cut under his left eye, one of his shoulders pads is missing, and is wearing leather leggings that are tattered and torn. Amy asks as to where he got them, and Marc says that he lost all of the leggings he had and the ones he is wearing now came from a zombie that he had killed, much to the disgust of Amy. She heads to a chest and gives Marc a fresh pair of leather leggings, saying to him that he should burn the other pair. Marc then leaves to get some food, and Amy knows that she had missed him, as the house feels a little more alive with him in it again.

=== Chapter 3 ===

At dinner, Marc and Amy’s mom is disappointed at Marc that he is leaving again so soon, but Marc feels like that the next adventure that he is going on is a big one, feeling like he’ll actually accomplish something. Their dad then suggests to Amy to lend a hand on his adventure, and Amy’s stomach sinks at the thought of it, as she would rather stay at home and have an adventure in their backyard. Marc then presses Amy to come along because of her mapmaking skills, adding that while he used a compass to navigate one time, he walked in a circle for two hours straight. Their mom then suggests to Marc to help Amy with tilling some farmland before going into town to pick up whatever he needs for his adventure. She then suggests that Amy pick up the stuff instead, but she refuses to do so. Amy is then seen outside tilling farmland while Marc is studying a map that he can’t get his mind off of. The map has a region north of where the family lives, with a big forest, a clearing near some water, an island in the center of the map, and a house with a black "X" over it. Amy asks Marc as to where he got the map, and he says that it was a friend of a friend of a friend that made the map, adding that the treasure that is believed to be in the house is a pair of elytra that mends itself. This makes Amy suspicious, but Marc stands his ground, saying that he feels like he is in a cage whenever he comes back home. He then asks Amy as to what her "thing" is, and she says that she is still figuring it out, hoping to set up a store in town to sell whatever she finds to travelers passing through. Marc is skeptical of her decision, and Amy admits that she doesn’t know what to do next, before reminding him about tilling farmland for their parents. The two then return to work as Marc apologizes to Amy for the cave incident, which occurred four years ago.

=== Chapter 4 ===

Marc left the house the next morning, so Amy prepares to tend to completing the tilling of the farmland by herself. Heading downstairs, she notices a small satchel on the dining room table with a note left by Marc that the food inside was for Tuna and Amy: raw salmon for Tuna, and sweet berries for Amy. Amy then notices another note left by Marc underneath the satchel, along with an extra copy of the map that Marc showed her last night; the note reads that the map is safer with her than being in his room. Their mom then enters the house, reminding Amy about their trip into town that was scheduled for today, and asks her to change her clothes. Amy attempts to argue, believing that mom could’ve prevented Marc from leaving, but her mom stands her ground, adding that they’ll be riding the horses into town despite their dad not liking to ride them. Amy then asks if she can bring Tuna, and her mom says that she can as long as she has a leash on it and carries it at all times. Amy then heads upstairs and changes her clothes, not to mention she has a few emeralds and some old tools that would be worth to trade for some iron.

=== Chapter 5 ===

Any and her parents soon arrive in town, and she promises them that she wouldn’t trade for anything that she didn’t need. She scours through the tools available for trade, eyeing the pickaxes and enchanted shovels, but her stomach starts to growl, so she heads over to the bakery, with the smell of fresh bread and cake drawing her in. Her cat, Tuna, begins staring at her with wide pupils, referred to as "the look", and she eventually gives in, giving Tuna the raw salmon from earlier as she heads inside the bakery, ordering a sack of goods, including a cake. Amy happily eats a slice before sitting with Tuna on a patch of grass to relax for a bit. She then notices a villager walking with a handful scrolls walking into a small wooden shack, with a sign reading "Cartography". Intrigued, Amy pulls out Marc’s map from earlier, hoping that someone in the cartography shop would understand it.

=== Chapter 6 ===

Amy walks into the cartography shop, and is immediately greeted with a strong, musty odor, thanks to the walls being plastered with old maps. She asks the cartographer villager about the map, who is very confused, before a heavily-armored adventurer named Gummo walks in, confirming that it is indeed a map. Amy then asks him if he knows her brother, and he says that he does, adding that Marc and Amy have a resemblance; that being that both have freckles on their face. Gummo agrees to assist Amy with the map on the condition that she give him some emeralds for a map that he needs, and after some hesitation, she accepts the offer. After getting the map, Gummo and Amy head to the former’s pet horse, with Gummo slipping the new map into a chest as he inspects Marc’s map. He concludes that it is a map to Glory’s Haven, but adds that it is also a forgery.

=== Chapter 7 ===

Amy questions as to why the map is a forgery, and Gummo says that the "X" is black instead of red, and that the forest clearing on the forged map is farther west on an actual map. Amy’s heart races, realizing Marc could be in serious trouble, and Gummo concurs, adding that Glory’s Haven is a death trap, with hundreds of adventurers going there, and none have returned. Gummo adds that the home that is Glory’s Haven used to be home to a guy named Fred. Amy then asks as to why no adventurers have come back from Glory’s Haven, and Gummo attempts to explain, but soon realizes the reaction he is getting and assures Amy that Marc will be just fine. Despite this, panic sets in for Amy, who asks Gummo if he’ll go after him, offering him a few emeralds to do the deed, but he politely refuses as he has a lot of other stuff to worry about. Amy then rushes to her parents, informing them that Marc could be in danger. They initially dismiss it, saying that Marc is more than capable of handling himself, but they eventually decide to come along with her, stocking up on gear beforehand. Amy is hesitant, however, on going to save Marc alone.

[[Category:Minecraft: House of Horrors chapters]]