<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: The Mountain}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 6 ===

Guy and Summer soon head back to the mountain, with Guy wondering as to where Summer lives. Summer then digs out a block of dirt, revealing a lever underneath a grass block with a rose on top of it. Guy flips the lever, revealing "a four-by-four block recess that ended in double doors". The two head inside toward a different room, complete with carpet on the floor, and numerous item frames containing the various tools. Guy asks Summer as to what she did once she found this mountain, and Summer says that she just started digging down, eventually finding a cave and a mineshaft. Guy then mentions about a clicking sound he heard when a rabbit had died earlier, and Summer mentions that it was because she had opened the windows with a redstone contraption involving pistons. Guy hands the rabbit meat to Summer for cooking, while he heads into a room next door, consisting of a steam shower. Guy decides to relax for a bit in the shower as his muscles unwind and his body begins to warm up. Eventually, Guy’s supper is ready, consisting of a rabbit stew. After eating it, Summer directs Guy toward the guest bedroom, well-furnished with carpet, paintings, and a fireplace. Guy asks Summer as to where she will sleep, and Summer mentions that she sleeps in the main chamber. She also mentions that the fireplace consists of netherrack, asking Guy if he had ever been to the Nether. Guy says that he hasn’t, and Summer says they’ll talk over breakfast tomorrow. Soon, the two say goodnight to each other, with Guy feeling happy that he isn’t alone in this world.

=== Chapter 7 ===

Guy wakes up to the sound of a crackling fireplace, soon springing out of bed. He then heads down the hallway through the double doors, revealing to him a hollowed-out room taking up at least a third of the mountain. Guy then notices a "hot pool" in the middle of the room and proceeds to jump in, but is stopped by Summer, saying that the bubbles from the magma blocks will make anyone drown. The two then eat, with Summer having some cooked mutton, and Guy having an apple and a cookie. Guy then explains his story about how he started, what he did, and how he left the island. He then asks Summer if she wants to go home, and she replies that she does, but hasn’t had much time to do so. Summer then shows guy a room she has been working on, complete with purple carpet, paintings, framed maps, a double-wide fireplace, some redstone lamps, and a jukebox next to the bed. Summer then mentions the Nether again, talking about glowstone, as well as the fact that she had to make a portal to get there. Guy then asks if he could go to the Nether with her to get some more glowstone for the redstone lamps. Summer agrees, and the two decide to head there tomorrow.

=== Chapter 8 ===

Guy then asks Summer as to why they can’t head to the Nether now instead of tomorrow, and Summer says that they need to prepare first. She then leads Guy to a room containing a brewing stand and a 4×4 pool of water. Summer then drinks a potion of fire resistance, showing off its effects to Guy, who is somehow surprised that Summer isn’t hurt. The two then head to Summer’s laboratory, where Guy drinks a potion of swiftness. He begins to run away from the mountain, but doesn’t realize that the sun is setting. Trying to head back, the potion effect quickly wears off, forcing Guy into a standoff with hostile mobs. Acting quickly, Summer gives Guy a potion of instant health and another potion of speed, which helps him get back inside the mountain. Guy quickly apologizes to Summer for his actions, and Summer accepts, saying that she trusts him. Nevertheless, the two continue their preparations to head to the Nether.

=== Chapter 9 ===

The next morning, the two are finally ready to head to the Nether, with extra food, arrows, tools, string, potions, and water bottles in hand. They head to a room which contains a Nether portal. Summer explains to Guy that this room is the only one with iron doors, just in case a "baddie" finds its way here. Nonetheless, the two soon enter the Nether, with the portal spawning on top of a floating island. Guy immediately drinks from his water bottle due to the heat, while Summer drinks a potion of night vision. Guy drinks one as well, and soon the two find a thin strip of netherrack connecting the floating island to the main land. Guy feels nervous about crossing it, but Summer then explains to him about the first time she had stumbled into lava as well, which builds up his confidence. Soon, the two make it across the thin strip. Guy then tries to kill a zombie pigman, but Summer stops him, mentioning what happened when she first killed a zombie pigman; it attracted the others, leading her back through the portal. Guy then asks Summer as to what to do from here.

=== Chapter 10 ===

Guy and Summer then explore the Nether, eventually finding some quartz and glowstone blobs. Just then, Summer hears the cries of a ghast, and the two draw out their bows to guard themselves. The two also find a lone glowstone blob high above them, so Guy finishes building an already half-finished staircase toward the blob. As Guy mines out the glowstone, Summer gets into combat with a ghast. Guy finishes mining, but inadvertently mines out some lava, which is quickly flowing toward him. He stumbles into Summer, and the two fall off the staircase as a result. They quickly hide from the Ghast to regroup, and not long after, they are successful in killing it. The two decide to end their Nether adventure for the day and head back through the portal.

=== Chapter 11 ===

Just as Guy and Summer make it back through the portal to the portal room, they quickly head for the front door and dip themselves into the frozen river right below the base of the mountain. The two then prepare a celebratory dinner consisting of chicken, but Guy immediately  begins to avoid bringing up chicken. He instead offers the idea of mushroom soup, but Summer politely refuses. As the two enter the chicken coop, Summer gives Guy some seeds to feed the chickens, and then gives him an iron axe to kill one of them. Guy hesitates, and then refuses, mentioning about how he killed so many chickens on his island and feeling guilty for doing so. Summer understands, saying that he doesn’t have to eat chicken. Eventually, the two have dinner, with Summer having cooked chicken, and Guy eating some cookies.