{{Not to be confused with|Minecraft Live 2025: Announcement Trailer}}{{wip}}{{More images}}{{Infobox video
|type=[[Mojang cinematic]]
|streamed_on=[[YouTube]]
|date=September 10, 2025
|length=2:00
|prev=[[Minecraft Live 2025: Announcement Trailer]]
|next=
|production=[[Element Animation]]
}}

'''Minecraft Live Official Trailer - September 2025''' is the announcement trailer for [[Minecraft LIVE – September 2025]].

== Summary ==
{{Expand section}}A [[copper golem]] is seen taking a [[redstone torch]] out of a [[copper chest]] with [[Alex]] seen behind the chest directing the copper golem forward, with many other copper golems carrying various different [[Redstone components|redstone]]-related [[item]]s and a [[bucket of axolotl]]. Eventually the camera zooms out and shows many different copper golems on the same path. At some point the copper golems make it outside, where they pass a [[wandering trader]] and [[trader llama]] along with various other [[mob]]s. We then see the copper golems walking along a mountainside where they pass by a [[rabbit]] and an [[allay]] carring a [[slime block]]. The copper golems are then seen trudging across [[jagged peaks]] with a large group of [[goat]]s. In a [[badlands]] biome we see [[Zuri]] mining [[terracotta]] with the copper golems in the background. A [[happy ghast]] carrying a [[boat]] with a copper golem inside floats by, and Zuri stops to admire it. The camera then shows the copper golem with the redstone torch and a copper golem with [[clay]] riding in a boat carried by a happy ghast. The copper golem drops the torch and then dives after it, plunging into the [[ocean]] and landing on a [[shipwreck]]. The copper golem begins to [[oxidize]] and is confused by it. The copper golem emerges with a [[squid]] on its head, shakes it off and continues on. The copper golems then reach a [[jungle]] and encounter three [[frog]]s, one of each variant. The copper golem continues to oxidize and stops for a second, before being pushed to continue by the other copper golems. 
The copper golems reach an intersection directed by an [[iron golem]]. The copper golem then completly oxidizes and turns into a [[copper golem statue]], holding up the entire line of copper golems and causing them all to fall over. [[Steve]] rushes in with a [[copper axe]] to revive the copper golem, who is then waxed by [[Efe]]. Once revived, the copper golem and the line of copper golems behind it continue. Once they reach a [[desert]] all of the copper golems start depositing their items into [[chest]]s. The camera zooms to reveal all of the mobs featured in the trailer earlier and eventually, Kai, [[Sunny]], Ari, Zuri, and Makena building a huge red wall using [[scaffolding]]. Once finished, Makena takes the redstone torch out of a chest, pats the copper golem on its head, and places the torch down. The torch activates a long line of [[redstone dust]] and [[redstone repeaters]], which the camera follows. As the camera follows the line of redstone, it passes by many mobs. Eventually, the end of the line is reached, and the [[Minecraft Live]] logo is powered. All of the mobs and [[player]]s celebrate as [[fireworks]] go off, ending the trailer.

==== Characters ====
{{columns-list|*{{EntityLink|Allay}}
*{{EntityLink|Alex}}
*{{EntityLink|Ari}}
*{{EntityLink|Axolotl}}
*{{EntityLink|Bee}}
*{{EntityLink|Camel}}
*{{EntityLink|Copper Golem}}
*{{EntityLink|Cow}}
*{{EntityLink|Creeper}}
*{{EntityLink|Dolphin}}
*{{EntityLink|Efe}}
*{{EntityLink|Frog}}
*{{EntityLink|Goat}}
*{{EntityLink|Happy Ghast}}
*{{EntityLink|Horse}}
*{{EntityLink|Iron Golem}}
*{{EntityLink|Kai}}
*{{EntityLink|Makena}}
*{{EntityLink|Noor}}
*{{EntityLink|Parrot}}
*{{EntityLink|Pig}}
*{{EntityLink|Piglin}}
*{{EntityLink|Rabbit}}
*{{EntityLink|Goat|Screaming Goat}}
*{{EntityLink|Sheep}}
*{{EntityLink|Skeleton}}
*{{EntityLink|Sniffer}}
*{{EntityLink|Spider}}
*{{EntityLink|Squid}}
*{{EntityLink|Sunny}}
*{{EntityLink|Trader Llama}}
*{{EntityLink|Tropical Fish}}
*{{EntityLink|Wandering Trader}}
*{{EntityLink|Villager}}
*{{EntityLink|Zombie}}
*{{EntityLink|Zuri}}|colwidth=20em}}

== Quotes ==
{{Empty section}}

== Videos ==
{{YT|5QU20HMPZ3M}}{{YT|mwaYu0ECqkA}}

== Trivia ==
* Many past trailers and short films are referenced during the trailer.
** The wandering trader and trader llama was a reference to [[A Wandering Trader Springs to Life!]]
** The allay with a [[slime block]], the goats, and the frogs were a reference to the [[Minecraft Live 2022: Announcement Trailer|Minecraft Live 2022 trailer]].
** The camel and snifflet were a reference to [[A Tale of Two Friends]].

== Gallery ==
{{Empty section}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox cinematics}}{{Navbox event|Promotions}}
[[Category:Minecraft Live]]
[[Category:Element Animation]]