=== Chapter 22 ===

The group eventually make it to the outpost that had previously belonged to the Overworld Overlords, noting that some illagers from earlier, including a {{EntitySprite|Ravager}} ravager, had stayed behind. The group ultimately decide to attack them.

=== Chapter 23 ===

With Logan set up as a diversion, he sets his sights on a pillager atop the outer wall and is able to knock it off with a perfect strike from his bow and arrow. Passing through the gate, he dodges numerous pillagers and kills a nearby vindicator. An evoker then appears, casting a spell to summon the evoker fangs on Logan, and then another spell summoning vexes to attack Logan, before fleeing off into the night. Just then, the ravager appears, charging at Logan, but Ben, Benjamin, and Bobbie stop it just before it hits him by attacking it from underneath using Logan’s old tunnels. As the group prepare to kill off the rest of the illagers, the narrator mentions that Logan would have the pity to betray them.

=== Chapter 24 ===

The group are indeed able to kill off the rest of the illagers. Logan then leads the group to the treasure room, with Bobbie asking as to how he knows where it is, and he says that he already looted this outpost once. However, the treasure room is completely empty, and Benjamin takes notice of a note depicting a skull and crossbones, making them realize that pirates had cleared it out. Ben then confesses that he knew a pirate who operated in this area.

=== Chapter 25 ===

Ben then adds that the pirate’s name was Paulie, adding that he and Johnny ran into him on their way to warn the Overworld Overlords that Logan was heading their way. Ben also adds that Paulie tried to steal their boat, so he left him stranded on a desert island and took his hat, which now made him realize that he was looking for the hat when he looted the outpost. The group decide to set out to find Paulie to return his hat and possibly offer a trade, and they soon find the beach where he was last seen by Ben, along with a shipwreck nearby. Logan decides to check for any traps by tossing some eggs, which spawn some chickens. At first, nothing happens, but then one of them is killed by an explosion which was set off by the chicken stepping on some tripwire. Paulie emerges from the shipwreck, only to retreat back inside it upon seeing the chickens, so the group decide to wait until nightfall to allow the other chickens to trigger the rest of the explosions.

=== Chapter 26 ===

By nightfall, Benjamin and Ben cross the beach toward the shipwreck, picking up the remains of the chickens that had died, that being feathers and raw chicken, for arrows and food. The two then build a small staircase along with a small platform so they can view the deck of the shipwreck without setting foot on it. Paulie is alerted to their presence, and Ben offers him his pirate hat back in exchange for the bottle of dragon’s breath. Paulie allows them onto the shipwreck, but unbeknownst to the two, he had set a pair of trapdoors right at the foot of the deck. Ben and Benjamin fall into the interior of the boat, which is lit by redstone torches, and are surrounded by numerous zombies. Paulie then exclaims to the two that he’ll also take whatever drops from their inventories once they succumb to the zombies.

=== Chapter 27 ===

Meanwhile, Bobbie and Logan are on the shore in a small shelter nearby, waiting for Ben and Benjamin to reappear. The two have a brief chat about the errand, with Logan think that it is a waste of time, and Bobbie replying that it was his idea in the first place. Bobbie then starts emptying the contents of her inventory into a chest to resort it, keeping the totem of undying. Logan then looks out the window, wondering as to when Ben and Benjamin are. Bobbie thinks that they are inside bartering with Paulie, but Logan says that Paulie is cackling to himself on the deck. Bobbie realizes that this isn’t good as Logan draws his sword, with him saying that he doesn’t mind a fight.

=== Chapter 28 ===

Back in the shipwreck, Ben tears out a hole in the side of the ship with his sword, allowing him and Benjamin to escape toward the beach. Zombies begin to spew out of the hole, though, so Ben attempts to patch it up with the wooden planks that he broke to escape. Just then, a zombie trips over a tripwire that had been missed by the chickens, causing an explosion that destroys the shipwreck and knocks Paulie off it onto the beach. Fortunately, Johnny, Bobbie, and Logan come in to assist and kill off the remaining zombies while curing two zombie villagers (one of them being Ash, the weaponsmith from Plaintown) and sending them back to where Avery is. Ben then gives back Paulie his hat, apologizing for taking it in the first place. He accepts the apology, but also says that he doesn’t have dragon’s breath, adding that the treasure room was already looted by the Overworld Overlords, with the exception of some wool, to gear up for fighting the wither. Ben then asks Bobbie if they should go after the Overlords or just head straight for the wither, but Bobbie says that the paths of this group and the Overlords are bound to cross, given that both groups are going after the wither. They then eat some cooked chicken to heal before setting off once more.

[[Category:Minecraft: Zombies Unleashed! chapters]]