<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Ironsword Academy/Ready. Set. Respawn!}}</noinclude>

=== Prologue ===

A small avatar which resembles a young boy is seen wandering in a taiga biome. His favorite block is mossy cobblestone because it makes him wonder if there were people that were in his world before he showed up. Every day, the avatar explores and learns to talk, but he already knows a bunch of things such as numbers, as well as friends which go by the names of Morgan or Jodi. One day, the avatar hears something rattling from behind a spruce tree, so he rushes over to find out who is there. The thing turns out to be someone that resembles Theo, who begins to lift a curved stick, followed by an arrow. The avatar is amazed that the figure resembling Theo has a bow, and acts unfazed as the figure resembling Theo fires an arrow at him, who asks the figure if it would like to be its friend.

=== Chapter 1: Ironsword Academy Is Totally Siege-Proof. Please Leave Your Trojan Horses at Home! ===

Morgan and Jodi Mercado arrive at Ironsword Academy, thanks to their previous school, Woodsword Middle School, being damaged by a tree that had fallen into Doctor Culpepper’s lab there. Furthermore, the Stonesword Library, which was where Morgan, Jodi, and a few others went to after class, was also going under repairs thanks to the roof being damaged from a storm. The two and a few others are staying at Ironsword Academy until repairs on both the school and the library are complete. Jodi then wonders if there is nobody else in the school, and also begins to think that they might not have art class. Morgan helps calm her down by saying that first days at new schools are usually the toughest, and adds that their friends are here as well. A fellow teacher then led the two into the main building, and a boy with glasses that was wearing a sash with the crest of the school gave Morgan and Jodi directions to their new homeroom, room 1201. After going down four hallways, two right turns, up a staircase, down a staircase, past a room where jazz music could be heard, through the courtyard, past the art room, and then up a staircase, the two finally make it to their homeroom at the end of the hall just as the bell rings. To their surprise, Ms. Minerva is their homeroom teacher, and the students in said room are also from Woodsword, including members of the student council, the theater club, and the basketball team, which includes Harper Houston, Po Chen, and Theo Grayson. Morgan feels relieved, even more so when Ms. Minerva asks for him to meet with Doc after school in the computer lab, and gives him a paper with directions to it. Morgan smiles, gleefully saying that he is available, and everyone takes their seats to begin their first day at Ironsword Academy.

=== Chapter 2: This Computer Lab Isn’t Big Enough for the Two of Us (And All of Our Computers, and a Pile of Experimental Technology). ===

After school, Morgan, Jodi, Harper, Po, and Theo rush over to the computer lab, which is connected to the library. Harper arrives there first, and hears a man’s voice, belonging to Principal Ferris, the principal of Ironsword Academy, explaining to Doc that her pile of technology is deemed as against the rules for their school, considering it to be junk. Theo and Harper then notice several piles of computer monitors, the VR goggles, and the server that hosts their Minecraft world. As Principal Ferris considers throwing everything out, Harper and Theo head into the lab, exaggerating their explanations about Doc saving their project. Although Principal Ferris seems unconvinced, he decides to give Doc one week to return everything she has to the students, adding that anything that is still here by the weekend is being thrown out. As he leaves, Morgan, Jodi, and Po then enter the computer lab, but Doc explains to them that the VR goggles aren’t working, and she doesn’t have the blueprints to make one, but she does add that the server is still on. Po then wonders as to how they are going to play the game without the VR goggles, and Harper says that they can still play with regular headsets. As the five of them turn on a computer and plug in a headset, Jodi says to Morgan that she hopes the Evoker Kid is OK, knowing that he has been alone in there for a while. Morgan hopes the Evoker Kid is OK as well, adding that they’ll work to save him if he isn’t.

=== Chapter 3: Skeletons Are So Heartless. And Brainless. And Lungless. But They Definitely Have a Spine! ===

Morgan, Jodi, Harper, Po, and Theo soon log into their Minecraft server, and they are surprised to find that they are already inside a treehouse, with a set of stone tools for each of them. Morgan and Jodi soon realize that Ash is already here, and soon find her at ground level. As Ash begins to explain to the others on how the tree house was built, a skeleton is heard in the distance, along with the sound of someone exclaiming that they got hurt. Morgan runs toward the sound and is surprised to find the Evoker Kid, as well as the skeleton, which is wearing a full set of golden armor. Morgan asks the Evoker Kid as to how the skeleton wore the armor, with the Evoker Kid admitting that he found the armor items in a chest and sheepishly gave them to the skeleton by dropping them at its feet. With arrows from the skeleton lodged in the Evoker Kid, he soon admits, after some initial confusion, that he is down to half-a-heart of health. Morgan has Jodi and Po nudge the Evoker Kid away from the commotion and have it take shelter in the treehouse, while the rest attempt to block off the skeleton. As Ash prepares to close up the remaining gap, the skeleton hits Morgan with its bow when he is at half-a-heart, killing him. Almost immediately afterward, Ms. Minerva rushes into the computer lab to inform Morgan that Baron Sweetcheeks and Duchess Dimples (Ms. Minerva’s classroom hamsters) are in a bit of trouble. As Morgan gets up to leave, he notices the screen went back to the server screen with an error message instead of the typical death screen, making him feel like things are going to get weirder from here on out.

=== Chapter 4: If There Are Two Mushrooms in Your Stew, Add Something to Fill the Bowl! ===

Meanwhile in Minecraft, Theo begins to wonder as to what the Evoker Kid is, considering that he can see the menus and inventories of others. Theo understands that the Evoker kid is a player, but is not a human, and ultimately narrows it down to someone that was inside the server and experiencing the world in a similar way to the VR goggles. Ash then asks the Evoker Kid as to what its name is, and the Evoker Kid says that he had never thought about a name before. Jodi suggests to shorten it to EK, but the Evoker Kid lets out a high and shrilling scream: "EEEEEEEEEEEEK!", making the group decide to call him Eek from now on. Theo and Harper then explain to Eek that all of Doc’s stuff would be thrown out at the end of the week, meaning that the Minecraft server would also be gone. Eek understands, knowing that he’d be alone, but instead wants to stick with everyone he had met. Theo and Harper decide to come up with a plan to save him.

=== Chapter 5: The Royal Titles of Hamsters Are a Delicate Affair. Don’t Mess Them Up if You Want an Invitation to the Ball! ===

Meanwhile, Ms. Minerva leads Morgan to the school library, which is next door to the computer lab, and explains to him that Baron Sweetcheeks and Duchess Dimples are not happy with the new location, adding that she had tried everything to help (giving them their favorite treats, cleaning out their enclosures, putting them in their hamster balls, etc.). While Morgan thinks of a solution, he notices a group of students chattering at the front of the library that are surrounding a cage which houses Prince Pellets, the school’s guinea pig. Ms. Minerva explains to Morgan that everyone is allowed to choose where they sit for reading club, understanding that everyone wants to be near Prince Pellets. Morgan decides to take Baron Sweetcheeks out of his cage for a bit, saying that he’d come sit by him whenever he could. As the other students chant at Prince Pellets to eat the grass in its cage, Baron Sweetcheeks turns away from the sound and flops on his belly in a huff. Morgan then puts him back in his cage as Ms. Minerva thanks him for trying, with Morgan adding that they’ll find a way to cheer him and Duchess Dimples up. Morgan begins to wonder, however, if his friends would stop caring about him now that they have Eek to talk to.

=== Chapter 6: It’s Time for Some Theo-Rising. And, Uh, Harper-Rising. We’re Thinking, Okay? ===

Meanwhile, back in the computer lab, Theo and Harper decide to talk to Doc about what is going on with their game. Doc is then seen sorting through her experiments, with the keep pile stacked up as high as it could go, and the toss pile containing only the item glowing blue that Theo had picked up before. Harper then asks Doc if there is any way to put the server’s contents on the computers at this school, and Doc sheepishly admits that she has already tried, adding that there is something in the data of the server that isn’t allowing her to copy or edit anything, and the server won’t even turn off. Harper and Theo begin to wonder why the server is acting strangely, with them both thinking it could either be from the thunderstorm that occurred at Woodsword, or the Fault in the game, or that the Evoker King is doing this on purpose. They soon assume it is the latter, understanding that the Evoker King said that they wished to experience Minecraft from a new perspective, referring to Eek. Theo then thinks about how the game would feel from Eek’s perspective, soon understanding that a trigger will occur when things happen at a certain time. Po attempts to interrupt Theo and Harper about something, but they continue talking amongst themselves, soon realizing that they need to go to the End, defeat the ender dragon, and see the credits, realizing that the trigger could be hidden there. Jodi, sounding panicked, then tells Theo and Harper to move their avatars, but the two say they had already logged out. Po then shouts that a creeper is standing right beside their avatars, and although the two attempt to log in as fast as they could, it was too late. As Morgan returns to the computer lab, the creeper explodes, causing Theo and Harper to be locked out of the game, with their screens showing the same error message that Morgan had.

=== Chapter 7: You Know What They Say: Six Heads Are Better Than Three. (But When You Only Have Three, You Make It Work!) ===

Harper and Theo explain their theory about what is going on to everyone, but Morgan can barely listen, asking why he can’t get back into the game. Theo shrugs, adding that it might be one of the changes made by the Evoker King. Morgan sighs, reiterating that their best chance at fixing it is to get to the End in one week with only half of their team. Harper then asks everyone if they had been to the End and had fought the ender dragon before. She, Theo, and Morgan had done both, while Ash, Jodi, and Po had done neither. Morgan then groans, thinking to himself that it doesn’t seem fair because he can’t help his friends, while Ash refocuses the group to the main task at hand: getting to the End and defeating the ender dragon. Theo then reminds the group that they have about an hour to come up with one, noting that student clubs can only stay until 5PM. Morgan, although he is more interested in wanting to play than pout about possibly not being apart of the team, decides to stick along as best as he can. Eek then speaks up, saying that he isn’t sure of what is going on, and that he feels like that he is the cause of the group’s problems. Jodi then says to him that she knows what is going on, that they aren’t leaving Eek behind, and that it’s everybody’s job to help when they are a part of a team. Ash then asks everyone as to what the first goal is for them to get to the End. Harper says it’s the same as usual, with Morgan adding that they need obsidian.