=== Chapter 8 ===

Bobbie is already dreading Logan’s plan, hoping that she would never have had to think about the Overworld Overlords again. She had a feeling that Logan had suggested it because of their outpost being destroyed earlier. Surprisingly, however, Logan’s idea makes Benjamin seem eager to help out, suggesting to make a dirt path leading back to the village so the other cured villagers can go back to where Avery is. Bobbie agrees after seeing Avery walk the path back to the village, and the others use their shovels to make said path. As the group continue to follow the path of wither roses, which eventually come to a stop at the edge of a desert. Ben then suggests that they go to a desert pyramid, hoping to find some spider eyes to assist with brewing potions, and the group agree to do so. Unbeknownst to them, however, Hatchet and Flip are following the group across the same dirt path, hoping to track down and kill the group.

=== Chapter 9 ===

Meanwhile, Benjamin is in awe at the sight of the pyramid, and the others decide to have him go solo. They do warn him, however, about the TNT trap at the bottom of the pyramid, just as Benjamin heads inside through the top as the pyramid is partially buried in sand. Just then, he hears a husk nearby, and freezes in fear. The husk then attacks Benjamin, giving him the Hunger effect. Feeling desperate, Benjamin stumbles into the bottom of the pyramid. The husk falls directly behind him and lands on the pressure plate, causing the bottom of the pyramid to explode.

=== Chapter 10 ===

Meanwhile, Bobbie, Ben, and Logan, are dealing with a swarm of husks, noting that they don’t burn in sunlight and turn into zombies when in water for long enough. Just then, they feel the ground shake violently, realizing that Benjamin is in trouble. Ben asks for the elytra, and she gives them to him just as she is attacking some husks, and Ben flies down the pyramid. Landing safely at the bottom, he is able to find Benjamin below the rubble of the TNT trap, and gives him two apples to help him heal. Benjamin then admits that he wasn’t prepared to head down into the pyramid, adding that he wasted everyone’s time thanks to the husk stepping on the pressure plate, but Ben gives him a pep talk about the two rules of adventuring: never jump into a situation unprepared, and never dig straight down, adding that he had to teach Bobbie those rules when he first met her. Benjamin then begins to think about what Logan had said, but tells him to forget about it, adding that he should be nicer to himself instead of blaming himself when he messes up. Benjamin agrees to do so, and starts building diagonally upward with dirt and sandstone to get back to helping Bobbie.

=== Chapter 11 ===

As Ben and Benjamin emerge from the desert pyramid, the latter admits that they didn’t get any treasure, and the former jokingly says that the treasure was the lessons that they had learned along the way. Logan then says that they should consider looking for obtaining spider eyes in a mineshaft, and Bobbie asks as to where to find them. Benjamin says that a majority of them are underground, but Ben quips that some of them are exposed in the badlands biome, and even if they don’t find any mineshafts there, the biome is also a good source to find gold. Everyone seems to be in agreement as Logan leads the way toward the badlands.

=== Chapter 12 ===

The group eventually find the badlands, as well as a mineshaft. Logan then says to the others that they aren’t looking for chests, but for a spawner that spawns numerous cave spiders, making Ben shiver in fear.

=== Chapter 13 ===

Bobbie whispers to Ben if he is okay, and Ben decides to fib that nothing is wrong. As the group head deeper into the mineshaft, Benjamin says that it feels haunted somewhat, and Bobbie agrees, knowing that she spent some time in a woodland mansion. Ben was still wondering as to what the spiders would do, even going as far as imagining that he hears the sounds of spiders skittering, so he calmly pulls out his diamond sword enchanted with Bane of Arthropods. The group soon come to a fork in the road, with Logan suggesting to go left, where there is more light, but Benjamin and Ben suggest to go right, where the path slopes down into darkness. The group ultimately decide to go down that path.

=== Chapter 14 ===

Benjamin had begun to have second-thoughts about his decision, but he soon hears a gurgling growl up ahead, making the group realizes that zombies are down here as well. Just then, Ben says that the growling sound is getting awfully loud, adding that it feels like it’s behind them. Just then, Logan realizes that it isn’t a zombie as a massive torrent of water rushes toward them, sweeping the group off their feet and making them go deeper into the darkness.

[[Category:Minecraft: Zombies Unleashed! chapters]]