<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Ironsword Academy/Ready. Set. Respawn!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 8: If You Can’t Beat Them…build Them a Place to Live and Make Sure They’re Comfortable. ===

Po is then seen teaching Eek on the basic tools in Minecraft: a pickaxe, an axe, a sword, a shovel, and a garden hoe. Eek decides to practice using a pickaxe first, and Po demonstrates by breaking a stone block with his own pickaxe, saying to Eek that he can pick up the block that dropped and place it down to make whatever he wants to make. However, Eek decides to place it back where it originally was. Po then says to Eek that they sometimes need to build something to keep them safe, going back to when they had to block off the skeleton to prevent it from attacking, adding that they could kill it once they get better armor to defend themselves from it. Eek immediately objects, claiming that the skeleton is its friend, and although Po says that the skeleton tried to kill him, he can’t persuade Eek to change his mind, so he shifts the subject to building a different enclosure so they can see the skeleton, yet it won’t be able to attack them. Po then grabs his axe and asks for Eek to do the same, wanting him to meet over by some trees to cut them down for wood, but Eek refuses to do so.

Po then shifts the conversation to exploration, such as meeting animals and bringing them along with him, and Eek agrees on exploring as there are so many things that are beautiful in this world, questioning as to why he would want to destroy it. Po looks up at the giant spruce tree just as the sun begins to set, and decides to take a screenshot of it. He then says to Eek that the most important thing is to give back something for everything you take, reiterating that they will have to cut down some trees to make something in exchange. Po then chops down a nearby spruce tree, giving the saplings that had dropped to Eek, who places them down where the tree once stood. Eventually, Po surrounds the stone enclosing the skeleton with fences and a lone fence gate, and then asks Eek if he doesn’t want his sword. Eek nods in agreement, so Po opens the gate and breaks out two stone blocks. Eek the drops the sword where the skeleton is standing so he can pick up the bow that dropped, and the gate is quickly closed, with the skeleton now unable to attack anything. Ash and Jodi soon return from their trek with some iron in hand, and craft an iron garden hoe for Eek to admire.

=== Chapter 9: They Say Diamonds Are Forever Because It Takes Forever to Mine Them! ===

Jodi then asks Morgan about what to do to find diamonds, and he says that most diamonds are down near bedrock, noting that they would have to dig staircases downward. They start doing just that, with Eek handling torches. Soon, Jodi comes across some iron, but she can’t pick it up, realizing that her inventory is full. She quickly heads back to the treehouse to unload it into a chest, and then quickly heads back down to pick up the iron and continues heading downward, with Eek placing torches behind her, but her pickaxe soon breaks, and there are no pickaxes in her inventory. Morgan then quips to Jodi that she had left them back in the chest at the treehouse, and Jodi asks him as to why he didn’t say anything, with Morgan replying that he didn’t want to seem bossy to anyone. The two then have a brief argument over how to play the game, with Morgan saying that bringing extra tools and chests are basic things for players to learn, while Jodi says that they all don’t play Minecraft the same way, having to learn just like he did. Morgan considers taking over for Jodi, but she refuses. Just then, Principal Ferris shows up, with Morgan rushing to the door of the computer lab, showing some concern about Baron Sweetcheeks and Duchess Dimples. Principal Ferris seems interested in what he has to say, and so the two head back into the library to talk about it while Jodi and the others work on their plan.

=== Chapter 10: It’s Called Bedrock Because When You Get There, You’ll Need Some Rest from All the Digging! ===

Jodi, Ash, and Po soon make it to the area where diamonds would be the most abundant, and so they begin digging tunnels in every direction. Eek begins wondering as to whether what was going on between Morgan and Jodi was his fault, and Jodi says that it absolutely isn’t, adding that Morgan is in a bad mood. Eek then says about Po mentioning that Morgan is her brother, so Jodi explains that it’s because she and him have the same parents and live in the same house, yet they are still different people. Eek attempts to compare this to him and the skeleton, but Jodi explains that the skeleton wants to hurt him because it was programmed that way, adding that even when Morgan and Jodi argue, they never want to hurt each other. Eek then asks Jodi as to why she and Morgan fight, and Jodi explains that Morgan is always like this because he strives to be a perfectionist, and he also isn’t very good at sharing his thoughts, even when its about something that he hasn’t even explained.

Ash then brings up the few things that helped Morgan change his mind or get his mind off of the argument, like when he apologized to her, or letting his classmates help the group save the Evoker King, or even just recently, with jumping in to save Eek and putting everything aside to protect them from Principal Ferris, adding that she thinks Morgan is more scared than mad, with Eek saying that it was because he saved him. Jodi interjects, noting that they are all right here to help, with Ash adding that she wants a chance to be important to the group as well. Just then, Jodi swings her pickaxe at the stone blocks in front of her, revealing a large cave, perhaps the biggest that Jodi had seen yet. Jodi then excuses herself to go do something, asking for Ash and Po to protect Eek, and they both agree to do so.

=== Chapter 11: There’s Honor in Becoming a Guinea Pig’s Knight. And Even More Honor in Apologizing! ===

Meanwhile, in the library, Morgan attempts to explain to Principal Ferris that Baron Sweetcheeks and Duchess Dimples are lonely, asking for some advice on what to do, but Principal Ferris dismisses it, saying that the hamsters should be moved somewhere else, much to Morgan’s surprise. He adds that the purpose of a school pet is to bring comfort, entertainment, joy, and a sense of responsibility to the students, knowing that Prince Pellets is all they would need. Principal Ferris then asks for Morgan’s name, and Morgan gives his full name. Principal Ferris then says that Ironsword Academy only wants the brightest and most perfect education for their students, adding that Morgan and his friends would have to learn that if they wish to fit in. Morgan attempts to argue, saying that Prince Pellets was obviously here first, but Principal Ferris says that they only do things the best way at Ironsword, and Morgan replies in agreement. Principal Ferris then says that he’ll recommend to Ms. Minerva to move the hamsters if they continue to be redundant in the eyes of him, adding as he walks away that he recommends that Morgan, Harper, Theo, and everyone else that recently arrived learn the school rules.

Jodi then bursts into the library, asking for Morgan, but Morgan motions for her to be quiet. The students of the reading club then finish for the day and gather around Prince Pellets as Morgan and Jodi realize that Baron Sweetcheeks and Duchess Dimples miss the other students at Woodsword. The two then apologize to each other for their earlier actions, with Jodi agreeing that Morgan should play as her character for a bit to help save Eek. Morgan almost agrees, but has a change of heart and instead says to Jodi that she can play with him helping, understanding that he should be the one to guide everyone else. The two then switch back to wondering as to what to do to improve the hamster’s mood, and Jodi suggests a so-called hamster pageant, which Morgan gleefully agrees, knowing that it can show the reading club as to why they love Baron Sweetcheeks and Duchess Dimples a lot. The two then put the hamsters back in their cage before heading back to the computer lab.

=== Chapter 12: Moss: One of the Most Powerful Forms of Life. It Can Completely Replace Rocks in Seconds…in Minecraft, at Least. ===

Back in Minecraft, Jodi, Ash, and Po are lucky that the cave they found was a lush cave with a lot of glow berries, yet a majority of the cave was still dark. Ash and Po keep placing down torches wherever they could, which leads to them killing spiders wherever they could. Eek then asks out of the blue as to what a green block is that he sees nearby, which makes Ash jump. She says that there block is moss before adding that Eek should head back to the house, and he agrees to do so before wandering off. Ash and Po then kill a skeleton, being cautious as to not let Eek see them do so. After placing down some more torches, Eek comes by them again and asks for some bone meal and where it comes from. Ash says that they do have some bone meal, and although Po objects to telling Eek where it comes from, Ash decides to do so anyway, understanding that it would be easy to tell the truth. She says that they come from skeletons, who drop bones when they are killed, and the bones can then be crafted into bone meal. The two then give their entire stacks of bonemeal to Eek, who heads back to the cave entrance.

Ash and Po get really tired, with both of them having only found one block of diamond ore each. They too begin to head back to the cave entrance, just as Morgan and Jodi return to the computer lab, with the former asking Eek as to what he did. Eek says that he found moss, and discovered that by using bonemeal on it, the stone blocks surrounding it also turned into moss, along with grass and azalea trees. Ash thinks that she had made a mistake by telling Eek as to where the bonemeal had come from, but Eek says that Po told him that whatever they take, they must give back, adding that skeletons are much like trees in that they can make something beautiful in exchange. Morgan realizes that what Eek is doing is genius, and asks for him to collect the moss blocks. Eek seems hesitant at first, but after some pep talk from Ash about every block becoming its own garden, Eek gets to work, breaking hundreds of moss blocks quickly with his iron garden hoe. Just then, everyone notices the dozens of diamonds that were underneath the moss, with Morgan explaining that by growing more moss from the bonemeal, it helped in making a shortcut so the others wouldn’t have to use their pickaxes as much. The entire group now feels confident that they could reach the End before the end of the week.

=== Chapter 13: I Lava When Everything Works Out. Water You Mean That’s How You Get Obsidian?! ===

Just then, someone knocks on the door, reminding the group that all after-school activities end at 5PM. Morgan now recognizes the person as the one who helped him get to homeroom earlier, now known as Will Knight, the president of the Ironsword Academy student council. The group then refocus back to the game, with Po having crafted a bucket earlier and filled it with water. He then pours it on the block next to a nearby lava lake, and it turns the nearby lava into obsidian. Eek is amazed at this, with Po adding that he’ll love when he tries cooking stuff. This makes Eek think that the lava is stew, and takes out a bowl, but everyone else shouts at him not to, and he puts his bowl away. Jodi and Ash then mine out the obsidian with their diamond pickaxes, collecting enough for a Nether portal. They build it quickly, but Morgan has Jodi refrain from placing the final two blocks down so it doesn’t activate. Morgan and Jodi then say to Eek that they have to leave for today, adding that he should stay in the cave, and to not go through the portal. Eek agrees to both of those requests, and everyone logs out of the game.

With Morgan realizing that there are still a few minutes left, Morgan says to Harper, Theo, and Po that some of their other friends need help, referring to Baron Sweetcheeks and Duchess Dimples. Some time later, in the library, Morgan and the others present Baron and Duchess to the other students at Ironsword as if it were a beauty pageant, with the two hamsters running down the runway in their hamster wheels. Will then asks if Prince Pellets could join as well, and the group agrees. Everyone cheers as Prince Pellets is seen wearing a golden crown and holding a ball which dispenses tiny carrots, which Baron and Duchess happily eat. As the students leave for the day, Will comes over to Morgan, asking if it was Minecraft that they were playing in the computer lab, and Morgan says that it was, adding that they play it whenever they can. Will then asks if he could join them, and although Morgan is hesitant at first, he happily accepts, adding that they could use all the help they need.

=== Epilogue: This One Won’t End with a Cliffhanger. Probably. If Eek Listens. Surely He’ll Listen. Right? ===

Meanwhile, back in Minecraft, Eek is once again alone, wandering around the lush cave. Days had already passed, in the game at least. He waited in the cave, which grew boring, so he grew some more moss with the bonemeal he had, which also soon grew boring, so he then made statues of his friends. Eventually, Eek got so bored that he went back up to the surface to check on the skeleton that he thinks is his friend. He breaks down the fence that held the skeleton in place and stays a few blocks away to keep it from attacking him with its sword. Eventually, Eek leads the skeleton to the Nether portal in the lush cave, placing down the final blocks of obsidian and lighting it with a flint and steel that Ash had placed in one of the chests. Eek and the skeleton then go through the portal.