<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 19 ===

As the three travel by the light of the moon, Bobbie asks Ben about woodland mansions, wondering if he ever saw one. Ben then says that he did see one, but at a safe distance. This was before he met Logan, who helped him refine his combat skills. The three soon make it back to the savanna surrounding Savannaton. Soon after that, they come across a creeper. Ben tells Bobbie to keep some distance between herself and the creeper so it doesn’t explode, and then to attack the creeper when an opening is available. Bobbie follows his advice and successfully kills one. She then notices something off in the distance, making Ben look at it, but he quickly averts his eyes when he realizes that its an enderman, and the two crouch behind a small hill. Bobbie says that the enderman seem harmless, and Ben says that they generally are, but get hostile when they are stared at. The two decide to stay behind the hill for a moment as Bobbie mentions that she was adopted by the villagers of Plaintown when she was a baby, and doesn’t remember anything that happened before it. Of course, she realizes that her villager parents aren’t waiting at home for her anymore, and Ben comforts her.

=== Chapter 20 ===

The three soon arrive at a dark forest and are closing in on a woodland mansion. Just then, they are attacked by a skeleton, with Bobbie losing her grip of the lead attached to Johnny as she and Ben run off. The skeleton then fires an arrow at Bobbie, but it is knocked away by Ben’s shield. Ben then closes in on the skeleton and kills it, collecting the arrows and a bone that had dropped from it. He then gives the bone to Johnny, who immediately gnaws at it. Bobbie then apologizes for not helping out, but Ben says that she did by drawing the skeleton’s fire for him to get within striking distance. Bobbie then considers tunneling the rest of the way to the mansion, but Ben asks her if she isn’t afraid of heights. Just then, the three are walking on top of the trees and soon arrive at the woodland mansion. Bobbie starts to look for a front door, but Ben breaks a nearby window to the dining room. From there, they go down the hallway and inspect a room with blue wool, a room with bookshelves, and a room with "an oak tree growing from a small patch of dirt", with no hostile mobs in sight. Ben begins to think that the entire mansion might’ve already been cleared out, meaning that the loot that had been here might’ve already been taken, much to Bobbie’s disappointment. She considers about looking somewhere else, but Ben responds with a look of terror on his face. Bobbie, perplexed at his response, thinks about renegotiating their deal, but Ben turns Bobbie around, making her see what thing has him feel frightened. Both scream at the supposed sight of a ghost.

=== Chapter 21 ===

Ben watches the supposed ghost fly through a column of wood before deciding to fire an arrow at it, informing Bobbie to have her sword at the ready in case he misses. Indeed, Ben misses as he hits the column, but it draws the supposed ghost’s attention. Johnny knocks himself into its path, causing Ben and Bobbie to attack it quickly. Fortunately, the supposed ghost dies within moments, but another one appears at the end of the hallway. Ben runs down the hallway and strikes the ghost with his sword. Bobbie then sneaks around it while it is distracted before the two kill it. Ben wonders if this one appeared out of nowhere, but Bobbie notices that it appeared from behind a wall, and uses her pickaxe to make an opening. Ben heads inside and notices a mysterious figure inside, which then raises its hands. Ben immediately realizes that the figure was casting a spell, but is attacked before he could get out of harm’s way as fangs appear from underneath. Ben then recognizes the figure as an evoker, but with it cornered, it is easily killed, dropping "a golden idol, humanoid in shape, with bright green eyes". Bobbie stashes it in her inventory before pulling out the witch’s book, and comes across a page with an illustration of a skull with an X drawn over it. She immediately thinks that it could be a weapon against skeletons as Ben wonders as to what else they could run into inside the mansion, however they are not able to find any mobs or loot besides a few melons from an indoor melon farm, making Ben believe that the place was indeed already ransacked. Bobbie wonders if they need to find another mansion, but Ben says that he has another idea. He leads Bobbie to the front of a mansion and soon notices a red banner made in the image of a skull and crossbones, but it wasn’t the reason why he brought Bobbie out here. Ben then draws his sword and slashes at the leaves of the tree, causing an apple to drop from them after a short while. As Ben picks up the apple and presents it to Bobbie, he says that they’ll just have to craft a golden apple instead.

=== Chapter 22 ===

The two then dig downward in a staircase- like fashion before Ben ends up finding a small cave. Bobbie places torches down wherever she could as the two start mining to find some gold. Bobbie’s inventory is soon full of blocks such as diorite and granite, and she also asks Ben if he has any more bones for Johnny to gnaw on, noticing that he is growling. Ben feels like Bobbie is spoiling Johnny, so he places down a fence post and ties Johnny to it with the lead that he is attached to, followed by placing down a chest nearby so their inventories can be cleared when necessary. Bobbie puts all of the other blocks in the chest and then gets back to mining, soon noticing a golden glint. She thinks that it’s gold, but Ben looks over her shoulder and notices that its actually iron, much to her disappointment, but Ben says that they should still mine as much iron as they could for their tools. After mining away at the iron, Bobbie pops out of her mining hole and notices that Johnny is missing, much to Ben’s shock. The two stop what they are doing and start finding him.

=== Chapter 23 ===

Ben tries to make Bobbie feel better by mentioning what Johnny did when the enderman came around and what could happen to him down in the cave, but Bobbie says for him to stop, much to his amusement. The two start running through the cave, but soon run low of torches, and also come across a T-shape intersection. Ben hears a growling sound to the right and goes after it, but it was a normal zombie instead. The two kill the zombie anyway before coming to a dead end of a wall of dirt. After going back to the intersection, they start heading in the opposite direction. Bobbie then exclaims that she only had three torches left, so Ben starts heading back the way they came to bring some torches back. Bobbie eventually places a torch in the dark area that she was in, and then hears a clacking sound, followed by an arrow whizzing by. She dodges it, making the arrow stick in the wall behind her. Noticing a skeleton emerge, she attacks and kills it. Ben then appears and tackles Bobbie to the ground to avoid another skeleton, and the two notice two more had appeared. They both rush toward them, and Bobbie notices "a small metal cage" with a flame burning in it. Ben mentions to her that it is a spawner and asks for her to destroy it while he attacks the skeletons. Bobbie does so, and soon notices a figure up ahead. Realizing that it was Johnny, she cries out his name and rushes toward him. Johnny turns around at the noise, but loses his footing as a result, falling into a river and being swept away by the current. With only a second of hesitation, Bobbie ran as fast as he could and dove headfirst into the river.

=== Chapter 24 ===

The river current eventually calms down as Bobbie is taken to an underground lake. She soon notices Johnny struggling to swim and drags him to shore with a tight grip on his lead, reminding herself that Johnny still has a tendency to wander off. Ben soon appears, with Bobbie surprised that he followed them. Bobbie then notices obsidian in-between the water lake and the lava, and Ben explains to her all about obsidian. Then, the two decide to make shelter, with Bobbie using her last piece of coal to craft a campfire, while Ben places down the beds and then makes an open-roof shelter with opening to server as a door and windows. Ben also places a fence post outside of the structure for Johnny, but Bobbie insists that it be placed inside so they don’t lose sight of him. Ben decides to make the structure bigger as a result, and soon places the fence post in one corner of it, tying the lead to the post. Ben then apologizes to Bobbie for what happened, saying that he probably didn’t secure the lead tight enough, but Bobbie doesn’t blame him for what happened, and insists on curing him as soon as possible. The two then eat some pork chops in silence.