<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles/Last Block Standing!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 8: The End City: Come for the Sights. Stay Because You’re Trapped. Forever! ===

The group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) soon get back into the world of Minecraft, preparing to enter the tower. Ash still thinks that they could use Theo’s help, but Harper politely objects, saying that they should figure out what information he is hiding. Despite everyone being low on health and their inventories stuffed with unusable items, they head toward the tower. Along the way, Ash recognizes the structure as part of an end city, which is typically found in The End. Ash also notices a waterfall with the water not flowing despite it raining. The group also notice a villager walking oddly, and realize that mobs aren’t able to do their normal things. The group then enter the end city, but are soon attacked by shulkers. Ash builds a wall, but doesn’t realize that shulker bullets can pass over them. It isn’t long before everyone begins to levitate up toward the high ceiling. Morgan mentions that the effect would only last for a short time, however.

=== Chapter 9: A Moment That Was Long Overdue: The Librarian Comes to the Rescue! ===

As the group continue to levitate higher and higher, The Librarian suddenly appears to assist them. She douses some water on the shulker from a water bucket, making it teleport away, and then immediately heads up to the group to build out a platform as the levitation effect goes away. The group falls onto the platform, but take no damage. Po thanks The Librarian for helping them, and she mentions that although the Evoker King had blocked her from accessing the game, she had assistance from a hacker who was able to find a weakness in the firewall. Morgan then takes a wild guess and says that The Librarian is actually Ms. Minerva, to which she smiles, shocking the group. Ms. Minerva mentions to the group that she had been playing video games since 1995, but she had never seen anything as powerful as the Evoker King. She asks the group if they really want to confront him, saying that they could just place down the VR goggles and walk away for good. Po says that they can’t let the Evoker King ruin their Minecraft world. It is then that Ms. Minerva says that she can’t help them further and decides to turn over her pair of VR goggles to the hacker. She blinks out of existence, but the hacker joins not long after, making everyone gasp.

=== Chapter 10: Welcome to the Team! I Hope You Survive the Experience. ===

The hacker is revealed to be Theo. Harper is shocked, but Theo says that he is here to solve everything. Harper wonders if he had been working with Ms. Minerva the entire time, and Theo says that he had been on his own for a majority of the time. Ash says for Theo to explain the situation from the beginning, so he does. He says that the situation started when the Evoker King had hacked into the school system, which was due to the foundation stone that was in their Minecraft server. Doc then coded the Evoker King into the game to find out what was wrong with the code and fix it. It was because of the group that started playing the game, however, that the AI evolved into the Evoker King, changing its tactic from fixing the foundation stone to using it instead. Harper asks about the dungeon and the reskinned mobs, and Theo says that he created them to prevent the Evoker King from obtaining the foundation stone in the first place; it was only because of the group’s actions that caused it to happen.

Po wonders as to what the foundation stone is, and Theo mentions that its basically code. He reminds everyone that the blocks they are standing on are all part of computer code, and that the code that is part of the foundation stone changes the programming of the entire game. Theo then mentions that he was able to change a few parts of the code himself and asks for everyone to drink a potion of slow falling. They all do so, surprised that they work again. Theo mentions that he had a mod installed that not only allows him to completely ignore the Evoker King’s code changes, but anyone within a few feet of Theo is able to ignore the changes as well. Morgan happily devours a bowl of mushroom soup, while Po changes his skin from a wizard to that of a boxer. Suddenly, a vex swoops down and attacks the group; everyone jumps down to the floor below except for Theo, who kills the vex with a diamond sword. As Theo joins back up with the rest of the group, they decide to play a prank on the Evoker King. Po decides to use Theo as bait, much to his surprise.

=== Chapter 11: Even an Artificial Intelligence Can Make a Mistake…and Have Bad Breath! ===

Although Morgan likes this plan, it feels risky as everyone decides to split up. Despite that, he, Theo, and Ash admire the new wording added to the obsidian that had previously marked as a warning on the mountainside. "BEWARE THE EVOKER KING" now read "BEWARE THE EVOKER KING’S BAD BREATH". Theo then calls out the Evoker King from the bottom of the mountain; the King ends up breaking a hole through his own tower. Morgan is surprised that he is able to see through the King’s skin, which had swirling constellations adorned on it. The Evoker King then summons numerous hostile mobs, ordering them to attack the group. Although the three start to kill them off, their health begins to drain quickly. Theo then decides to call out the Evoker King on fighting them, making the King stop the horde of hostile mobs and instead grab Theo from underneath with numerous dirt and stone blocks shaped like a giant fist, clutching him as tight as he can. The Evoker King then asks Theo as to why he isn’t using his powers, and Theo says that he isn’t Theo. Just then, Theo blinks out of existence, revealing Po in his place.

=== Chapter 12: Meanwhile: Stealth Squad Is Go! ===

Meanwhile, Jodi, Harper, and the actual Theo are crouching behind a wall on the side of the tower, all with tridents equipped that had been enchanted with Riptide. The three head up to the top of the tower using the tridents just as the Evoker King floats down from the tower to go after Morgan, Po, and Ash. Harper, Jodi, and Theo soon make it to the opening that the Evoker King had made, only to see that the room was nothing but plain white with a throne set across the back wall. Jodi soon notices that the throne is glowing, with Theo realizing that the foundation stone is right in the middle of it. Just then, the Evoker King appears and runs toward the stone, but Jodi was already close to it as she could be. The two were neck and neck, but Jodi’s hand ends up touching it first.

=== Chapter 13: Little Sisters. They Grow Up So Fast! Especially When Their Minds Expand to Encompass an Entire World! ===

Jodi’s vision goes white as she feels her body everywhere around the world of Minecraft. She also sees the code that the Evoker King had altered and reverted it back to what it originally was, making everything in the game come back to life. Jodi also notices that the Evoker King had begun to experience what fear was like.

=== Chapter 14: The King Has Fallen. Long Live the Queen! ===

Morgan, Ash, and Po build a staircase to the top of the tower. Morgan is shocked to see his sister, Jodi, floating off the ground and glowing with power. He asks if she is alright, and Jodi says that she never felt better than right now. She fixes up the throne room, not to include adding colorful banners and a purple llama. Theo then says for Jodi to kill off the Evoker King, but she refuses, saying to the Evoker King that he is afraid and that she understands that the King didn’t want anybody else in its own world. The Evoker King says that he’ll become a nightmare to everyone, but Jodi insists that the King become their friend instead. The King then asks as to how that could happen, and Jodi says that the King should choose its own path, and perhaps change its mind about the others as well. Morgan asks as to what Jodi is talking about, and Theo explains that because the Evoker King is an AI, its programming changes as it learns new things. After some hesitation, the Evoker King decides to become friends as everyone else decides to lodge the foundation stone deep underground in a new dungeon.

=== Chapter 15: To All Things, an Ending. but in Every Ending, a New Beginning. (and Cake, Sometimes!) ===

Not long after, back in the real world, it was Ash’s last day at Woodsword Middle School. She had already emptied her locker, returned her textbooks, and packed up her gym clothes, but had not yet said goodbye. Ash and her friends meet up in the computer lab, where Ash is greeted with a cake. Doc gives Ash a pair of VR goggles to use, noting that there are no more glitches in Minecraft. Ash then thanks everyone for making her have a good time here, saying that her new school won’t be the same despite it just being a few towns over. Theo is still happy that Ash will be able to play with them using the VR goggles, and that they can either visit her or call her as needed. She then shows everyone a present that she decides to give the entire school, walking across the schoolyard and past the bat house, revealing to them the treehouse that was originally from Ash’s backyard. Everyone is surprised, including Baron Sweetcheeks, who happily runs over to the treehouse. Ash, Morgan, Harper, Jodi, Po, and Theo then all engage in a group hug before Ash departs, smiling and crying at the same time.

=== Epilogue: The Point in the Story Where Things Get Worse… ===

Not long after, Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Theo are back in the world of Minecraft, where Ash is waiting for them. She explains to the others that the Evoker King had turned into stone, and the others decide to find out together as to how it happened.