{{experimental|JE|je=Minecart Improvements}}
'''Minecart Improvements''' is an [[experiment]] {{in|je}} that makes various changes to [[minecart]]s. According to developer [[Ulraf]], the developers want to make sure they find a good time and a good approach regarding minecart improvements, because they don't want to break the things players have already made with them.<ref> https://www.youtube.com/live/2cxUNoWNy50</ref>

== Additions ==
'''Gameplay'''
* Added {{code|max_minecart_speed}} [[game rule]] (<code>minecartMaxSpeed</code> before [[1.21.11]]) that changes the maximum speed of minecarts.
** Defaults to 8, range from 1 to 1000 blocks per second.
** Setting it to a specific value does not guarantee that a minecart will reach that particular max speed - there are built-in air resistances and similar effects that the speed added through slopes or powered rails needs to overcome.
** This gamerule only exists in worlds with the [[experiment]] enabled.
* Added a new [[option|accessibility setting]] that makes players follow the rotation of minecarts they ride.
** Defaults to off.
** Only has effect when within a world with the [[experiment]] enabled.

== Changes ==
* Minecarts now articulate their movement better when going fast, riding on the rail all the time.
** Minecarts now smoothly turn along with the track and are less likely to halt or derail.
* Improved minecart jumping.
** They keep their vertical momentum when the track ends with a slope.
** Minecarts now tilt to visually articulate while in the air during a fall with horizontal movement.
** No rail grinding sound is played when minecarts are flying through the air.
* Minecarts can no longer be placed within another minecart by the player. However this can be bypassed by [[dispenser]]s.
* Minecarts can now consistently be placed next to each other along a track.
* Minecarts now pick up mobs more consistently when moving along a track.
* Minecarts now more easily come to rest at opposing slopes.
* Minecarts no longer phase through blocks on slopes when going up or down, they collide instead.
* Minecarts are now placed (or dispensed) with the correct rotation straight away when put on rails.

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.2|dev=24w33a|Added the "Minecart Improvements" experimental data pack.|Added {{cd|minecartMaxSpeed}} game rule that changes the maximum speed of minecarts.|Added a new accessibility setting that makes players follow the rotation of minecarts they ride.|Minecarts now articulate their movement better when going fast, riding on the rail all the time.|Minecarts now smoothly turn along with the track and are less likely to halt or derail.|Minecarts now keep their vertical momentum when the track ends with a slope.|Minecarts now tilt to visually articulate while in the air.|No rail grinding sound is played when minecarts are flying through the air.|Minecarts can no longer be placed within another minecart by the player or a dispenser.|Minecarts can now consistently be placed next to each other along a track.|Minecarts now pick up mobs more consistently when moving along a track.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=24w34a|Minecarts no longer forcefully snap to the center of a block when landing on a rail.|Dispensers are able to stack minecarts again.|Minecarts now more easily come to rest at opposing slopes.|Minecarts no longer tilt during a short fall, or when they are falling straight down.|Minecarts are now placed (or dispensed) with the correct rotation straight away when put on rails.|Minecarts no longer phase through blocks on slopes when going up or down, they collide instead.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.11|dev=25w44a|Renamed the game rule <code>minecartMaxSpeed</code> to <code>max_minecart_speed</code>.}}
}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Experiments}}

[[Category:Experimental]]

[[fr:Améliorations des wagonnets]]
[[ja:トロッコの改善]]
[[pt:Melhorias dos Carrinhos de Mina]]
[[ru:Улучшения вагонеток]]