<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles/Dungeon Crawl!}}</noinclude>

=== Prologue: It’s Only Fair to Tell You Now: The Evoker King Wins in the End…. ===

Five [[BLOCK HEADZ|heroes]] are huddled together deep underground; an [[Harper Houston|alchemist]], a [[Morgan|knight]], a [[Jodi Mercado|rogue]], a [[Po Chen|wizard]], and a [[Ash Kapoor|ranger]]. They feel confident about the dungeon that awaits them, but the narrator mentions that they will lose the battle.

=== Chapter 1: “Step into My Parlor!” It’s the Polite Way to Say: “Come Here, I’m Gonna Eat You Now.” ===

The group ([[Harper Houston|Harper]], [[Morgan]], [[Jodi]], [[Po Chen|Po]], and [[Ash Kapoor|Ash]]) are in [[Minecraft]], hunting for [[spiders]] in a forest while opting to find them in caves if there are none. As probably expected, they don’t find any yet, so Harper suggests that they split up. Po refuses, saying that everyone should stay together. Just then, the group notice a pair of red glowing spider eyes off in the distance. Moving slowly toward the spider, everyone ends up getting stuck in [[cobwebs]], which Jodi believes to have placed by the [[Evoker King]]. Po then shivers as he feels a chill, which sends vibrations to neighboring spiders through the cobwebs. The entire group is then surrounded by numerous pairs of glowing red spider eyes.

=== Chapter 2: Don’t Blame the Scarecrow for Being Creepy. It’s Sort of His Whole Job. ===

The entire group ends up killing the spiders with relative ease. They then make a path through the cobwebs as Ash and Harper pick up the stuff left behind, being [[string]] and at least ten [[spider eyes]], respectively. Everyone soon heads back to a bunker that they had built; a relatively basic one with just enough room to store their [[beds]] and materials for the next mission. Jodi insisted on adding something else, however, that being a figure with [[Hay Bale|hay]] for body, [[wooden fences]] for limbs, and a [[carved pumpkin]] on its head, dubbing it "[[Scarecrow Joe]]". As Harper begins brewing some [[potions]], Ash points out that they are close to being at the area where the source of the Evoker King's power would be found, that being the X-coordinate and Z-coordinate of 0, the origin point. Just then, the group hear a voice coming from the scarecrow. Morgan immediately recognizes it as the voice of the Evoker King. The Evoker King mentions to the group that it is here to help them, while also saying that the item they seek is locked away in a dungeon deep underground. The Evoker King then warns the group to turn back before the scarecrow bursts into flames.

=== Chapter 3: All the World’s a Stage. and All of Us, Merely People in Chicken Outfits. ===

Back in the real world, at [[Woodsword Middle School]], the students feel more excited than usual, especially Po, as this day in particular was the beginning of auditions for the yearly school play. Classes were cancelled through the whole morning so [[Ms. Minerva]] could get all the tryouts done before lunch. Po and Morgan arrive at the auditorium, with the latter feeling nervous. Po mentions to him that he generally takes deep breaths to calm down, or if that fails, he imagines that everyone is dressed as a chicken. Before long, it was Morgan’s turn to audition. He decides to go for an acting role, and the audition goes very well. Then, it was Po’s turn. Although he prefers an acting role, both Ash and Ms. Minerva suggest that he work as part of the backstage crew instead due to him being a part of the basketball team. Po hesitates at first, but then dons a fake smile and decides to go ahead with it. As Ash jots down on her clipboard, Po thinks to himself that he excelled his acting role without nobody knowing it.

=== Chapter 4: You Can’t Go Home Again! (Well, You Can, but You Might Not Like What You Find There.) ===

Later that day, after school, the group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) all meet up back in Minecraft. They continue toward the coordinates of X=0, Z=0 (the center of the world). Jodi soon notices that her sculptures that were set up were reduced to rubble, while the others notice that their castle had been picked apart as well, with random blocks removed. Jodi thinks it might’ve been the work of the Evoker King, while Ash thinks it might’ve been the work of [[The Librarian]]. Morgan calmly says that everything in Minecraft isn’t meant to last forever as the group make it to the center of the world. Jodi begins to daydream again, saying that the source of the Evoker King’s power could either be a unicorn or a magic wishing lamp with a genie coded with AI inside of it. Harper reiterates, however, that its in a dungeon deep underground. Morgan decides to check one last time to be sure they have everything they need; Harper handles the potions, Ash handles the [[arrows]], Morgan carries the [[armor]] and [[shield]], Jodi becomes a rogue, and Po becomes a wizard. Everyone changes their [[skin]] to be respective of their task, and then start their adventure.

=== Chapter 5: The Dungeon Welcoming Committee Deserves Zero Stars from a Disappointed Visitor. ===

The group find a cavern not long after they start digging downward. Heading into it, they are soon attacked by numerous [[spider jockeys]]. Everyone works as a team to kill them off with relative ease; Morgan moved toward the jockeys to get their attention, Harper throws [[poison potions]] at them, Ash fires arrows at them, Po fires some [[fire charges]] at them via a [[dispenser]], and Jodi attacks two [[skeletons]] from behind, making Morgan finish them off with a swipe of his [[sword]]. The group then enter the dungeon that the jockeys were guarding, but soon fall through a set of [[trapdoors]].

=== Chapter 6: The Ol’ Trapdoor Trick…I Can’t Believe They Fell for That. ===

The group end up falling into a huge pool of [[water]]. Ash is carried below the water’s surface, but soon is able to swim back up thanks to Po placing down [[sea pickles]]. Everyone swims over to a small shore of [[sand]] and decides to regroup for tomorrow, placing down their [[beds]] and disconnecting for the night. The next day, at school in the real world, Ash is frantically working as stage manager for this year’s play. Originally, the school wanted to do "The Phantom of the Opera", but because they couldn’t get permission, Ms. Minerva decided to go with an original play called "[[The Phantasm of the Cafetorium]]", noting that it was a mixture of "Phantom of the Opera" and Ms. Minerva’s love of French pastries. Everyone is busy with their task; Harper works on the props, Jodi works on painting the scene’s backdrops, Po works on the stage lighting while also assisting Morgan with his lines, and of course, Morgan studies his lines for the play. Harper decides to keep the props low-tech, noting that the torch she had made only involved a flashlight.

[[Theo]] is cast as The Phantasm, the main character in the play, but Ash seems less worried about him as he basically works like a natural. She says for everyone to keep up the good work as she heads backstage. Ash asks Po as to why he isn’t working on the lights, and he holds up a copy of the script complete with his notes on lighting cues, which is why he is helping Morgan with his lines instead. Ash then catches a glimpse of [[Doc Culpepper]] right over Po’s shoulder, with the Doc’s shoulders feeling slumped. Ms. Minerva had banned high-tech equipment from the school play due to what happened with the security cameras earlier in the year. Not just that, but Doc was also forbidden to alter any equipment for the play. Ash wants to include her in the play somehow, but is distracted when Morgan stumbles on a line. When she turns back toward where Doc stood, she was already gone.