{{Italic title}}
{{Infobox book
| title = ''Minecraft: Battle of the Block''
| author = Jamilah Thompkins-Bigelow
| audio = Unknown 
| cover = Unknown 
| country = {{W|United States}}
| language = English
| genre = Fiction
| location = ''[[Minecraft]]''
| publisher = {{W|Random House|Random House Worlds}}
| date = June 30, 2026
| media = Print, Digital
| pages = 272
| isbn = 978-0-593-97233-5
| oclc = N/A
}}

'''''Minecraft: Battle of the Block''''' is the upcoming 24th ''Minecraft'' novel. It is authored by Jamilah Thompkins-Bigelow and is slated to be published by Random House Worlds on June 30, 2026.<ref name=MCBattleBlock>[https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/768622/minecraft-battle-of-the-block-by-jamilah-thompkins-bigelow/ ''Minecraft: Battle of the Block'' by Jamilah Thompkins-Bigelow]</ref>

== Synopsis ==
{{q|Ever since her family moved to the suburbs and [[Nzinga]] started middle school, she’s been really lonely. Her only consolation has been working on [[Phantasy Philly]], a special build she and her team will present at a huge [[Minecraft]] convention in just a few weeks. Nzinga, her brother [[Samir]], and her cousin [[Jannah]] have decided to recreate and reimagine a blocky version of their old Philadelphia street. Now that summer is here, Nzinga can’t wait to return to the old neighborhood and finish their build.

But when Nzinga and Samir arrive at their [[Nzinga’s grandmother|grandmom]]’s house, things aren’t how she pictured. Jannah, usually a design whiz, seems distracted and unwilling to work on their project. Incessant drilling can be heard all hours of the day as new apartments are constructed, replacing beloved parts of their street. The constant noise makes it hard to think straight, let alone get anything done.  

Nzinga sees how noise pollution and redevelopment are hurting the street, but what can she do about it? And how is she supposed to fight that battle while also inspiring her team to build their ideal Minecraft neighborhood? As Nzinga struggles to answer these questions, she may just learn how even the quietest voices can have the biggest impact.|Book description<ref name=MCBattleBlock/>}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox books}}{{Navbox meta novels|battle}}
[[Category:Fiction]]

[[zh:Minecraft: Battle of the Block]]