=== Chapter 8: Stick + Coal + Log ===

That evening, after the dance, Lam heads home and packs a bag to bring to Elias’ house. Fortunately, Lam’s parents have no issue with him spending the night at Elias’ place, despite the fact that his parents usually aren’t there due to their work schedules, with Kristy as his caretaker. Not long after, Lam arrives at Elias’ house, which is more like a mansion. A four-story house with a turnabout carport and an extension allowing Kristy to live at the house permanently. The mansion is also labeled as a historic landmark thanks to Elias' parents talking with the townsfolk to label it as such. Jazz and Elias were already waiting out front at the bottom of the staircase leading up to the house. The former is wearing a white knit cap, a pink winter jacket, and pink hiking boots, while the latter is in his normal clothes with a sleeping pad tucked under his arm. Britt arrives shortly after, with Lam noticing her parents arguing in the front seat. As they leave, Britt, Jazz, Elias, and Lam all head over to the geocache location: the forest behind Elias’ house. Upon arriving at the coordinates, the group find a square-shaped device with a laser pointer attached to it, but no coordinates. As it starts to get dark, the group decide to sleep in their childhood treehouse for the night, making Lam have flashbacks to when they would pretend to be in the Overworld back in fourth grade. Fortunately, the treehouse was just as they had left it, with the chests still intact with items made as they were made in Minecraft. Lam then starts a fire near the base of the tree with some kindling (leaves and logs), and the group eat some beef stew and snacks together before heading back up to the treehouse for the night. Jazz considers bringing up "The Griefer" to her parents, but the group ultimately decide to solve it themselves. The group fall asleep soon after, but Lam soon wakes up to a beam of light pointed directly at him.

=== Chapter 9: Glass + Nether Quartz + Wood Slab ===

Lam knocks away the light quickly, wondering why it turned on. He then digs into his pocket and pulls out the notes that he wrote down, with one mentioning that the moonlight would reveal their first clue. Lam then wakes everyone else up, mentioning that the device he has is an inverted daylight detector. The group then head back to where they first found it, carefully placing it back in the notch in the tree stump. The laser points up to something dangling in the branches, and Britt fires an arrow at it, making it fall to the ground. The object was a bottle, painted just like how it would appear in Minecraft, and inside the bottle was a piece of paper with the first coordinates. The group holler and give each other high fives before heading back to the treehouse and sleeping the rest of the night. By daybreak, everyone packs up their belongings and waits at the turnabout for their parents to pick them up, with Lam being the last to leave. After breakfast, the group get back onto their Minecraft server, suit up with non-enchanted armor, and then head off, with the coordinates leading to their first eye of griefer. Just then, The Griefer appears, and Britt attempts to attack it again with her diamond sword, but again, it doesn’t flinch. The Griefer then tells Britt to check her castle armory, and the group plod back to the castle. Upon entering the armory, Britt types out a long "No" in the chat as a giant chicken contraption is unveiled, releasing a chicken egg each time its beak is opened. As Britt runs around in circles, The Griefer informs the others that the next set of coordinates is located at a waterfall before vanishing once more. The group believe that the waterfall it is referring to is the one by Silverfish Springs, and they decide to head over there as Britt tries to pull herself together.

=== Chapter 10: Water Bottle + Nether Wart + Pufferfish ===

Lam is next seen in his garage as his dad says that he was looking around the entire house for him. The two discuss about school, especially the new friends that Lam seems to be making. Lam then talks about how middle school is so different, comparing it to when he got a new pair of sneakers and was told to toss out the old ones. His dad then says that just because he is working on making new friends at school doesn’t mean he needs to abandon the old ones. Lam interjects, saying that he isn’t abandoning them, adding that there are no other friends like them. Later, Lam’s dad drops him off at the trailhead for Silverfish Springs, and the group make it to the base of the waterfall not long after, but realize the only way to get across is by boat, and the canoe is on the other side of the waterfall. Fortunately, some fallen over logs were nearby, so they use two as makeshift boats to get across. Lam and Elias get across the waterfall with ease, but Jazz and Britt were still a bit behind, with Britt especially having a fear of swimming. Lam notices the log beginning to jostle, asking the two if they are okay, but the log rolls out from under, making both Britt and Jazz lose their grip and fall into the water.

=== Chapter 11: Bottle + ? {{sic}} ===

Britt bobs in the water, struggling to find her footing. Jazz is able to pull herself back onto the log, and Lam acts quickly to save Britt, using a rope he has in his bag to reel her back to shore. The group consider giving up and going home, but Britt encourages them to press on. On the way up to the top, Britt and Lam take a breather, with Britt saying that she wishes her life would be easier if her parents just divorced. Lam and Britt reconcile quickly, and then rejoin Jazz and Elias at the top of the waterfall, finding nothing. Jazz believes that the coordinates could be in the cave behind the waterfall, so the group decides to head there, backtracking down the trail and going down the path to the cave. Entering it, the group find torches like the ones made in Minecraft, which had candles powered by batteries. Following the trail of torches leads to a dead end, but Lam brings his flashlight up, noticing a stool with a glass bottle at the far end with a piece of paper inside. Elias pushes himself to the front, determined to get the bottle, but Lam insists that he stop. Elias ignores his plea as he continues to walk backward, and soon drops into the ground.

=== Chapter 12: String + String + String + String + String ===

Lam, Jazz, and Britt rush over to the pit that had opened up, with Elias believing that he twisted his ankle. The group pull him out using the same rope from earlier, and then get the bottle using that same rope. The group then retrace their steps and use the canoe to get back to the trailhead, with Lam taking one person at a time, as the canoe could only hold two people. Despite finding the coordinates seeming to be more of a challenge this time around, the group are still hopeful in finding out who The Griefer is.

=== Chapter 13: Gold Ingots + Stick ===

The group then head back to their homes, and waste no time logging back onto their Minecraft server, grabbing unenchanted armor, and heading toward the coordinates, which leads them to a swamp. In the swamp was a witch hut that was not an ordinary one. It instead was adorned with a roof shaped like a witch hat, with a four-panel window resembling the belt buckle, and a lantern resembling the drooping tip of the hat. Three witches were situated around the hut, along with some zoglins. The zoglins are killed with relative ease, and the group then sneak into the garden in front of the hut. Just then, a high-pitched zombie growl is heard, and Britt notices it to be a baby zombie in full diamond armor riding a chicken: a chicken jockey.

[[Category:Minecraft: One Last Quest chapters]]