<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: The Shipwreck}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 8: Jake ===

Jake overhears his father and someone else talking. He tries to sneak out of the apartment without being seen, but his father notices him and introduces him to Isabella Reyes, one of the planners for the renovation. Jake’s father mentions to him that they (Jake’s father and the construction company) plan on beginning construction next week, as well as overseeing renovation of the east and west towers. Jake feels excited at first, knowing that he’ll finally have a place to stay, but the excitement quickly fades to fear as he realizes that he’ll never be able to find out what is happening in the Minecraft server set up in the computer lab. Without hesitation, Jake quickly leaves the apartment for the computer lab. Upon arriving, he closes the door to the computer lab, turns on the computer, and launches Minecraft.

=== Chapter 9: Emily ===

Emily is frustrated about being grounded, but her mother eases the grounding a bit: she is allowed one phone call to Pattie, as well as using her mother’s Polaroid camera for pictures. Emily calls Pattie, mentioning the grounding, saying that it’ll most likely be the whole summer. Pattie asks if she could come over to Emily’s place, but Emily mentions that she can’t have friends over either. After the phone call, Emily goes outside with the Polaroid and takes some pictures of Pacific Crest. She eventually stumbles upon the community center, which is now fenced off for construction. Someone then scares Emily from behind, causing her to lose several pictures that she had taken. As she picks some of them up, she turns around, noticing Shark holding some of the pictures. Emily demands Shark to give the pictures back to her, but Shark refuses, and soon, he throws them over the fence into the construction area. As he walks away, Carmen calls to Emily that dinner is ready. Seeing as she basically is unable to get the pictures now, Emily quickly walks back to her apartment.

=== Chapter 10: Tank ===

Tank hands Ba a wrench as Ba attempts to fix the kitchen sink. As water leaks from the pipe, Auntie Phuong has Tank take the wrench away from Ba, as well as putting the toolbox back underneath the bathroom sink. Tank puts the wrench into his pocket. As he flops on the couch, Vivian shows Tank lilacs that she had found for his garden in Minecraft. The two play Minecraft well into the night, and Tank soon notices a notepad filled with coordinates and notes. He asks Vivian as to where she wrote them, and she slips that she was down at the computer lab with a notebook the week before when the Wi-Fi shorted out. Although Tank is frustrated that Vivian left the apartment by herself, he soon leaves said apartment to retrieve the notebook.

=== Chapter 11: Jake ===

Jake slips into the community center by pulling a loose part of a chain-link fence, as well as ducking under some yellow "CAUTION" tape and squeezing through some shrubs. As he heads toward the computer lab, he has flashbacks about the past week: more and more construction equipment began stacking up in the community center, and although Jake finally has Wi-Fi in his apartment, the multiplayer server that is set up only appears on the LAN network in the computer lab. Jake had also noticed someone new: a security guard named Grant, who usually arrives around 10PM and leaves around 6AM. Jake arrives at the computer lab by 9:30PM, but soon notices a glow of light. He attempts to hide behind a construction tractor, but slips, causing his phone to clatter on the ground. A guy asks if Shark is here, and Jake is relieved somewhat that the guy is Tank. Tank asks Jake as to what he was doing here, but soon hides with Jake as they notice someone heading toward the community center. The two notice a pair of teal sneakers as well as a pair of hands with blue nail polish, shocked to see that it is Emily. Emily is then spotted by Grant, who soon finds Jake and Tank hiding behind the tractor.

=== Chapter 12: Tank ===

Grant contacts Jake’s father and Ellen Jenkins, the owner of Pacific Crest, about the situation. Ellen soon appears, wearing slippers and a bathrobe. Grant mentions to Ellen that he called Jake’s father first, and the two have a short argument. As they argue, Emily, Tank, and Jake attempt to make it back to their apartments without being noticed, but ironically, they are noticed by Jake’s father. Grant suggests about pressing charges against Emily, Tank, and Jake for trespassing, but Ellen suggests that the three help her with cleaning up the community center. Jake’s father accepts the idea, and soon, he and Jake head back toward their apartment. Ellen mentions to Emily that her parents will meet her here, and also mentions to Tank to be here tomorrow at 9AM. Emily then heads back to her apartment with her parents. Tank then heads back to his apartment, being greeted with a PB&J sandwich made by Vivian for him. She asks if he is in trouble. Tank says he is and asks her if she heard the phone ring earlier. Vivian nods in approval, pointing to a blinking "01" on the receiver. Tank deletes the message and tells her that nobody else has to know about the situation.

=== Chapter 13: Emily ===

By 9AM, the three (Jake, Tank, and Emily) are sitting on a bench by the community center. Emily then walks over to a door labeled "Manager", knocks it, and asks for Ellen Jenkins. Nobody answers, so Emily assumes that there is nothing to do today. Ellen then shows up, letting Jake, Emily, and Tank in, and gives them disinfectant sprays, rags, and mops. Ellen then mentions that if the three aren’t working together, then she will press charges against them for trespassing and vandalism. She then gives Jake a key and leaves.

=== Chapter 14: Tank ===

Emily starts cleaning up the office, while Jake and Tank start cleaning a storage room. Tank puts on a mask due to the high amount of dust in the room, and the two look over various news clippings about Pacific Crest as they clean. About an hour into their shift, the three take a break, eating some pieces from a chocolate bar that Jake had brought. Jake then asks if Tank and Emily know each other, and Emily mentions that she and Tank had been to the same middle school. Soon, Jake and Tank are in the computer lab, where the former is playing Minecraft. Jake kills a creeper and then heads back to his home base. Tank notices that the farm that Jake had made seems off, with wheat and potatoes mixed, as well as random pools of water, and questions him about it.