<!-- From the introduction through Chapter 4, no name is given to the person. However, from Chapter 5 onward, the person is referred to as "Guy", hence the wording from Chapter 5 onward refers to the person under masculine words (he/him). Any attempt to retroactively apply the words to the earlier chapters will be considered as vandalism and be immediately reverted. -->

<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: The Mountain}}</noinclude>

=== Introduction ===

The person introduces itself to the reader, mentioning that the reader already knows about how it learned to survive on an island, but also says that if the reader didn’t know about that, that it would fill the reader in as they read the story, saying that this story picks up from where the other left off.

=== Chapter 1 ===

The person mentions that after crafting a boat and attempting to leave the island for the first time, that it wouldn’t make that mistake again, this time supplying themselves with food, tools, a map, and a compass. The person begins rowing westward, away from the island, eventually going so far west that the white arrow on the map that the person has crafted had turned into a static circle. The person thinks about zooming out the map, but quickly realizes that it can’t be crafted unless there is solid ground. The person then continues rowing westward. Although feeling cold, the person stumbles upon land, but unknowingly crashes its boat into ice, slowly sinking to the bottom. The person is able to make it out alive, however, barely breaking the surface, but soon hears a drowned in the distance.

=== Chapter 2 ===

The person is soon surrounded by hostile mobs, having no choice but to retreat inward toward a mountain. The person stumbles across a polar bear, but they are soon attacked by skeletons. The person is then trapped between a wall of lava and hostile mobs, but soon falls through some
snow down into a cave. Having no other choice, the person digs out a bunker, eats some food, and soon falls asleep.

=== Chapter 3 ===

The person then wakes up and heads up to the surface. The person barely dodges a skeleton and avoids some falling snow as it heads up to the top of the mountain, noticing a forest off in the distance. The person slowly heads down the other side of the mountain toward the forest, just as a rabbit who had been following the person inadvertently dies by hopping off the side of the mountain.

=== Chapter 4 ===

The person arrives at the forest, only to soon notice a wolf beside them. The person also finds some sheep, feeding them some bread, which in turn spawns some baby sheep. The person then notices the wolf killing some sheep, so the person kills the wolf. Unbeknownst to the person, a few more wolves attack it. The person barely makes it out alive and takes shelter in a nearby igloo. The person then hears the wolves die, and upon opening the door, notices a girl.

=== Chapter 5 ===

The girl is surprised to see the person, offering them rabbit hide. The person immediately puts the rabbit hide over their head and chest, thanking the girl for giving the hide to them. The girl and the person have a brief discussion about being strangers to one another. Then, the girl decides to call the person "Guy", referencing his beard. Guy decides to call the girl "Summer", referencing her "wonderful laugh that warmed me like a summer breeze". Summer then tells her story to Guy about how she first started her journey, from her first night on the island through making a base inside of a mountain.