<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Stonesword Saga/Mobs Rule!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 8: If You Love Your Job, You’ll Never Work a Day in Your Life. If You Hate Your Job…Tough! ===

The next day, at school in the real world, Po, Harper, Morgan, Jodi, and Theo all discuss about what to do to make sure that Po gets the votes he needs to become class president. Ash also joins in via a video call from Harper’s phone. Po plans on having Harper hack the morning announcements for slogans about him, to have Morgan bake some cookies, to have Jodi spy on Shelly’s actions, to have Ash be here for emotional support, and for Theo to team up with Po’s basketball teammates to form a dance flash mob. Unfortunately for Po, everyone else already has plans; Jodi plans on working with Theo to create a website, as well as sketch some posters, while Harper plans on conducting polls through the school to make predictions. Ash begins to feel like that Po’s campaign is getting out of hand, but Po shrugs it off as he prepares to picture Baron wearing a small T-shirt that says "Vote for Po!".

=== Chapter 9: Straight into the Spider’s Web! What Could Go Wrong? Probably Nothing—Except a Giant Spider! ===

Despite the disagreements over Po’s campaign, the group (Po, Morgan, Jodi, Harper, and Theo) decide to head back to playing Minecraft as soon as possible, hoping to solve the mystery of the giant cave spider. As the last school bell rings for the day, the group rush over to Stonesword Library and put on the VR goggles. The group spawn back at the village, which remains empty. They decide to collect some wood to make torches and then start heading back down the cavern. Theo then brings up that they should try to trap the giant cave spider like how they did with the Endermonster. The others seem to be in agreement. A pit is then created, albeit much deeper due to the fact that spiders can jump. The group then follow a tunnel which leads to a large cavern containing the giant cave spider. The spider is surrounded by several mobs with red eyes, like sheep, rabbits, and villagers, with the latter offering the spider bread and emeralds. Theo feels like that Po was correct under the thought of the spider building an army, but Harper is skeptical, thinking that the group of mobs act "more like worshippers or servants than soldiers". Nonetheless, Po shouts at the spider to vote for him, which hisses and points at the group.

As the group run away, they run through the thick fog and soon get lost. Fortunately, Theo is able to use a compass to get his bearings on where he is, and mines out a path back to the chamber, shouting for everyone to follow him. The group so do, but instead of being followed by the spider, they are followed by several red-eyed rabbits that fall into the nearby pit. As the rabbits head out into the chamber, their eyes return to normal, making the group believe that not only does the spider’s control over the mobs wear off at a certain distance, but Theo begins to believe that Po’s army theory might not be holding up. Just then, the group hear the sound of the giant cave spider wailing, as if it was sad. Out of options, the group decide to retreat to the village for the night and prepare to think of another plan to capture the spider.

=== Chapter 10: If Your Rival Reaches Across the Aisle…Give Her a Cookie. ===

The next day, Jodi, Morgan, Harper, and Theo are all sitting together beneath a tree. As Jodi is sketching out Minecraft rabbits on graph paper, the group also discuss of a plan to capture the spider once and for all. Morgan had also baked some cookies, albeit they were unappetizing. Just then, Shelly appears and offers to sit beside them. They agree, and so Shelly asks them about their number-one issue involving the school. Theo says that he would like to have the computer lab back, with everyone else in agreement. Jodi says that she cares about recycling, and Shelly says although Woodsword is good about recycling practices, that it could be handled better. Shelly then brings up the block party, which is an annual after-school party that is held. Harper and Theo feel like the party is a waste, saying that money for that should be allocated to help improve the school instead, but Morgan says that he loves going to it. Jodi notices Shelly writing down the responses in her notebook, which gives herself the feeling that Po might not end up winning the election. Shelly then asks about the cookies, and although Morgan says that they are for Po’s campaign, he offers her one anyway. As Shelly bites into it, her facial expression changed from excitement to mild disgust. Morgan immediately apologizes, saying that he mixed up baking powder with baking soda, which makes everyone laugh. Shelly decides to place the cookie in a small plastic bag for later. Unbeknownst to them, Po watches from a distance behind a large tree, feeling as if Shelly was turning his friends against him.

=== Chapter 11: A Chip Off the Old Block Headz. Let’s Just Hope These Chips Don’t End Up in a Batch of Morgan’s Cookies! ===

After school, the group (Po, Morgan, Jodi, Harper, and Theo) get back to playing Minecraft. Only this time, Po watches over the group with anger and suspicion as they go over their plan to capture the giant cave spider using redstone. Po immediately objects, saying that they should instead craft netherite armor and weapons and use that to kill the spider. Everyone else objects to Po’s idea, with Theo mentioning that the spider contains a piece of the Evoker King’s code. Po then name drops Shelly, accusing her of spying on his campaign, and the group argue with Po about her intentions regarding what they discussed. Just then, Ash shows up, saying that she hates to see his friends caught up in an argument and that they won’t "topple that tyrant" if they don’t work together, referring to the giant cave spider. Theo asks if ‘tyrant' could also refer to Po, which leads the latter to disconnect from the game. As Po leaves the library, Ned Brant, a student reporter for the Woodsword Chronicler, the school newspaper, asks him about his platform as a candidate, specifically asking about the annual block party. Po, understanding of the reporter’s statement that many students feel like the block party is a waste of money, says that if he is elected class president, that the block party will be canceled. In his mind, Po hesitates that he may have said the wrong thing. The reporter reiterates the question to be sure, and Po says that it’ll be a campaign promise for him to cancel it.

=== Chapter 12: Extra! Extra! Read All About It…So You’ll Know What Everybody’s Yelling About! ===

The next morning, Po arrives at school, hoping that what he said about the block party would turn his campaign around in the right direction. Instead, however, he notices the other students whispering and giving him weird looks instead. Just then, Ricky shows up, mentioning about the student newspaper running a story which mentions that Po states that he wants to cancel the block party. Po says that the statement was half-true, stating that he said that because it was what the others wanted him to do. Ricky then says that he and a few others were looking forward to the block party, so Po quickly gets out his megaphone and says that he is reversing his decision on the block party. A few students, and even Ms. Minerva, object to that decision, saying that they need money for new equipment. Others, such as Ricky and Doc Culpepper, support that decision instead. Just then, Shelly appears and asks for everyone to give Po some space, saying that he would need time to be able to consider their position on the issues. Shelly also says that she herself is still considering her stance on the issues. Po decides to take the opportunity to lash out at her, saying that she is indecisive, that they need a class president who is both daring and decisive, and challenges her to a debate.

=== Chapter 13: Be Careful What You Trap for. You Just Might Catch It! ===

Later, at Stonesword Library after school, Morgan questions Po about his decision to challenge Shelly to a debate. Po admits that he panicked in the heat of the moment, and also apologizes for his actions from yesterday. Morgan also apologizes about the cookies, but Po still appreciates him for putting effort into them. Morgan then asks Po as to what is going on, and Po says that he really wants to win the election, admitting that he hates the thought of losing. Morgan then says that although everyone likes to win, it sometimes makes them fight the wrong battles. Jodi, Harper, and Theo soon join the two, and they all get back into Minecraft, ready to take down the giant cave spider. In the caves, the trap is already set. Now, they head back to where the spider is to lure it out. As they approach its den, everyone throws their splash potion of slowness, giving all of the mobs in the area the slowness effect for at least ninety seconds. As the group split up for their respective areas, the mobs give chase. Po ends up trapping some villagers behind a set of iron doors and rushes back to the center of the cavern, where Harper, Jodi, and Theo had already done the same with the other mobs (villagers, axolotls, sheep, cows, and one llama). Just then, Morgan comes into the center at full speed, warning the spider is closing in. The spider appears a few seconds later. Theo quickly closes a set of iron doors, trapping the spider in the center.

=== Chapter 14: How Can You Tell Spiders Hate to Be Trapped? Because They’re Always Climbing the Walls! ===

Po draws out his sword, ready to attack the spider, but decides to let the others talk to it first. The spider responds by skittering along the wall, retreating to the far corner of the cavern. The group end up stumbling into the trap that had been set up for the spider and begin to sink through the cobwebs. Morgan is able to move a hand and asks Harper if they have any shears. She admits that she left them in a chest above ground, thinking that they didn’t need them. Without hesitation, Morgan feels like there is no choice but to kill the spider. He draws back his bow as the spider hisses at the group, saying that its friends can’t help it now. Suddenly, Po has an idea. He asks for Morgan to stand down as he himself attempts to talk to the spider. Po mentions to the spider that it feels nice to be surrounded by friends, as well as feeling good to be popular. Po also says that it feels good to be the center of attention, but he wouldn’t force people to do what he wants. Po then says to the spider that it is the part of the Evoker King that needs friends, which is why the spider surrounded itself with villagers and mobs, but also feels like that manipulating them is the wrong thing to do, and that instead, the spider should have its friends choose if they want to do what it wants to do. The spider hesitates, and then nods once before bursting into a light of butterflies which soon dissipates to show the other leg of the Evoker King in its place.

=== Chapter 15: The Big Debate! the Moment of Truth!…And the Reason Gym Is Canceled Today! ===

It was the day of the debate between Shelly and Po. The entire cafeteria was packed with students to witness it. Mr. Mallory is serving as the moderator for the debate over lunch hour. He first asks Shelly as to why she wants to be class president. Shelly responds with plans to increase after-school activities, reduce the school’s carbon footprint, and to save the block party by making it a fundraiser. The students applaud at Shelly’s remarks. Mr. Mallory then asks Po as to why he wants to be class president. Po responds with a statement that he doesn’t want to be class president, shocking the students. He continues, stating that all he wanted was to win the election, and although winning feels good to him, as well as being the center of attention, he says that he himself is not ready to bear the responsibility of being in that position. Po then announces his endorsement of Shelly for class president, which again, shocks the crowd of students. They eventually do applaud Po for his decision, however. Po soaks in the applause, realizing that he had made the right choice.

=== Chapter 16: The Results Are in! Everybody’s a Winner! But There’s Still One Little Problem…. ===

Later that day, the group (Po, Morgan, Jodi, Harper, and Theo) are back in Minecraft, in the cavern that was previously home to the giant cave spider. At school, Shelly had won the election for class president by a landslide, although Morgan, Jodi, Harper, and Theo admit that they did vote for Po, not because he was their friend, but because they believe in him. Morgan adds that Po would’ve been a great class president, knowing that Po rises to whatever challenge faces him despite not being prepared. The group then destroy the "Vote for Po!" signs for good measure, hoping to put the experience behind them. As the group prepare to head to the surface, Theo notices a faint glow off in the distance, wondering if they missed one of the signs. Turning the corner, they don’t find a sign, but instead a message written in blocky letters with glowing ink: "COME TO THE ZOO… IF YOU DARE!". Beneath the message was an image of a butterfly. The group wonder as to what the message means and who could’ve written it, and overall, the message doesn’t feel comforting to them.