<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Stonesword Saga/New Pets on the Block}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 8: Put Your Paws Together for Jodi’s All-Purpose Pet Service! ===

Several days later, in the real world, Jodi starts to worry that perhaps she might not be able to get a pet after all, so she comes up with a plan. She decides to help walk Miss Maribelle’s two dogs, Beefy and Bo, around town in the mornings, as Maribelle herself can only walk with one of the other at a time. As Jodi heads over to the dog park, she comes across other dog owners who ask her if she can walk their dogs; some were even willing to pay her. Jodi said yes to everyone who asked, including Dr. Culpepper (Doc for short). One morning, Jodi is walking over to Doc’s house, along with her group of friends, who have joined her out of curiosity. The others have never seen a teacher’s house before, so they thought that it would be a smart home with the latest gizmos and gadgets, but it was just a normal home with a souped-up antenna on the roof. Doc opens the door and welcomes everyone as her pet poodle greets Jodi, named "Nicholas Pupernicus". Doc then mentions to everyone that Nicholas is able to slip out of his collar from time to time, so she hands them a dog whistle that she had made herself. Jodi mentions that dogs have sensitive ears and can hear sounds that are too high-pitched for humans to hear. Doc then mentions that the whistle can play a variety of classical tunes at high pitch, and gives everyone an instruction manual to look over. Po reaches for the whistle, but Jodi mentions that it isn’t a toy and gives him the instruction manual instead, much to Po’s disgust. Morgan then asks Jodi if he can give the dogs some treats, and she says that he can, but has to know that Nicholas is lactose intolerant, Beefy has to have his vitamins wrapped in cheese, and Bo eats his treats very quickly. Morgan starts to say something, but he sneezes. The others hope that Morgan isn’t getting sick, as they’ll need to play Minecraft later.

=== Chapter 9: One Mob’s Rotten Flesh Is Another Mob’s Treasure. (But Seriously, I’d Rather Have the Emeralds!) ===

Later, back in Minecraft, the group head back to the village that they had saved from the giant cave spider. Harper begins looking for a cleric, saying that she has a plan. Theo also starts searching for a cleric as the sun begins to set in the Minecraft sky. Harper eventually finds a cleric, in which she trades a stack of rotten flesh for some emeralds, and then uses the emeralds to buy lapis lazuli. Harper then asks Jodi for the trident, and she reluctantly gives it to her. Harper then mentions that she is hoping to enchant the trident with Channeling, which would mean that the trident would make a lightning strike when thrown, much to everyone’s delight. Just then, a creeper appears and blows up, knocking both Jodi and Michael G forward. Theo quickly throws a splash potion of healing at Michael G as Jodi wonders what had attacked them. Theo mentions that it was a creeper as Morgan and Po rush over to check on them. Michael G mooed with pleasure at the attention the others were giving him attention. When he turned his eyes toward Theo, Theo couldn’t help but pay him on the head, thinking to himself that Michael G was probably cute.

=== Chapter 10: Small Business Ownership! It’s Like Putting the Whole World on a Leash and Having It Drag You Around. ===

In the real world, Morgan was feeling more and more sick each day that passed, but Jodi was the complete opposite. Her pet-walking service was getting popular, leaving her with more and more energy, but of course, she couldn’t have the guts to say "No" to a request, as this time around, Jodi is walking six dogs, a pet iguana, and a parrot in a bird cage. Even Baron Sweetcheeks, Ms. Minerva’s classroom pet hamster, stayed close to Jodi; she had volunteered to take care of him during the school break. The group then stumble upon Ms. Minerva, who shows them her orange-striped cat named "Dewey". Just then, Nicholas Pupernicus and Dewey lock eyes with each other before Dewey launches himself onto Nicholas' back. The other dogs, the iguana, and the bird all panic, causing Jodi to lose her grip on the leashes and the cage as the pet animals scurry off.

=== Chapter 11: Who Let the Dogs Out? And Could That Person Please Come Get Them? ===

Jodi couldn’t believe as to what was happening. All of the pet animals that she had got loose, and she starts to cry. Morgan gives Jodi a hug and says to her that she can fix it, saying that she knows the animals very well and should tell the others what to do to get them back. Jodi has Theo lure the parrot back with crackers, Harper doing the same with the iguana (albeit with fruit instead), and Po using Doc’s whistle on the dogs. Jodi uses a laser pointer to lure Dewey back to Ms. Minerva. Fortunately, all of the animals were brought back in just under an hour, and although Jodi apologizes to Ms. Minerva about it, Ms. Minerva says that no harm was done. Just then, Jodi notices some shattered plastic in the grass, realizing that it is Baron Sweetcheek’s ball. She then finds that Baron Sweetcheeks had fallen unconscious, and cries out that he had been hurt.

=== Chapter 12: Sweet of Cheeks. Strong of Spirit. Injured of Paw. ===

The group rush Baron to the vet, but the veterinarian there promises that he will be fine. An X-ray shows that his only injury was a sprained paw, and the veterinarian recommends that Baron rest for a few weeks. The veterinarian also gave Baron some medicine to help calm him down, and also says that Morgan and Jodi are free to see him. The two find Baron sleeping on a pillow in the back room. Jodi begins to think that Morgan was right in saying that she wasn’t ready for a pet of her own, but Morgan begins to say something different before sneezing. The veterinarian then says that Morgan is allergic to cats and dogs, much to his own relief. As for Jodi, however, she realizes that she can’t have one as a pet.

=== Chapter 13: They Say Lightning Never Strikes Twice. But “They” Don’t Have a Trident of Channeling. ===

Back in Minecraft, the group are en route back to the witch hut. Po tries to cheer up Jodi, but she starts to realize that she might have to let go of her dream about getting a pet; Po mentions again that whatever happened in the real world wasn’t her fault. Just then, it begins to rain and thunder, with Harper realizing that this is the perfect opportunity to test out the trident that is enchanted with Channeling. Po then asks if he can throw the trident, and Harper reluctantly gives him it. Po then throws the trident, but he decides to aim it toward a pig instead. The trident lands near the pig, and then lightning strikes the trident, turning the pig into a zombified piglin. Although shocked, Morgan realizes that zombified piglins only attack if they are attacked first. Jodi then brings Michael G over to the trident before running clear from it. Just then, lightning strikes the trident once again, turning Michael G from a normal mooshroom into a brown mooshroom.

=== Chapter 14: Which Witch Ordered the Mooshroom? ===

The group finally make it back to the witch hut, with the witch cackling gleefully at the site of Michael G. She took him to a tiny cage with mycelium and mushrooms, and then shows off a netherite sword, intending to kill Michael G for his leather. The group is shocked about this and intends to kill the witch, but they are still under affect from weakness. Just then, the group reveal Ash, who attacks the witch with her own sword. As Jodi frees Michael G from the cage, the witch begins throwing potions at the group, but unlike the potions they were hit with earlier, they were actually being cured of the weakness effect. Morgan stops Ash from killing the witch just in time, and she herself doesn’t know what is going on. The witch then explains that it was all a test to see if they cared about "beings of flesh and blood". The witch then says to the group to be good to those things, as their compassion would be needed to save the bees. Harper wonders as to what she means by this, but the witch already began to wave goodbye. Just then, the witch transforms into a mass of butterflies before leaving behind the right arm of the Evoker King in its place. As the clouds parted in the sky, The Fault had grown much larger than before.

=== Chapter 15: With Great Hamsters There Must Come…Great Responsibility! ===

In the real world, Jodi spends the rest of the week nursing Baron Sweetcheeks back to health. She continues to walk her neighbors dogs, but she restricts herself to taking only one or two at a time. Jodi even changed her mind about having a pet and informed her parents about it, much to their surprise. She wasn’t ready for the surprise that followed that weekend at the Stonesword Library. All of her friends had gathered in the meeting room, even Mr. Mallory, Ms. Minerva, and Doc. Ash had even appeared via Theo’s laptop screen. They show her a big gift box on the table. Jodi opens it, revealing a hamster cage with a new pet hamster inside. Doc says to Jodi that she can take care of her, under adult supervision, of course. Ms. Minerva says that the hamster will stay at the library, but Jodi is free to name the hamster. Morgan says that he’ll get himself an allergy shot once Jodi is ready to have a pet dog or cat. After the two engage in a brief hug, Jodi decides to name the pet hamster "Duchess Dimples". Everyone celebrated, but Jodi and her friends were slightly worried, as they still have three more pieces left to find of the Evoker King.