<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Mob Squad: Don't Fear the Creeper}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 1: Elder Stu ===

Elder Stu introduces themselves to the reader, proclaiming that they are "the Eldest Elder and the second oldest person in the town of Cornucopia", and that people need to stay inside the town’s walls and to never "go out into the Overworld". They then say that it is scary out in the Overworld, stating that "there are terrifying monsters and bloodthirsty animals and strangers", and although that there is "good scenery and interesting people and untold riches" beyond the wall, they say that some people will talk about how the people of Cornucopia are descended from grand adventurers, which they describe as "poppycock" and "utter nonsense". Elder Stu then says to the reader for them to leave their shop, but not before offering the reader a hoe to use for a potato farm, saying that they "just need to settle down inside the wall with your potatoes and wait for old age" to claim them, and that "the Overworld is the last place" they want to be.

=== Chapter 2: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, she introduces herself to the reader as "the apprentice of the oldest and weirdest person in town", referring to Nan, Mal’s great-great-great-grandmother. Lenna then says to the reader that they shouldn’t listen to what Elder Stu has to say, stating that "he doesn’t know what he’s talking about" and that "he’s never been outside the wall around Cornucopia". She then says that the Elders still don’t like it when she and her friends head out into the Overworld, despite them having already saved the town twice before. Lenna then says some information about Nan, such as how she taught her to use a bow, but most importantly, Nan says to Lenna that there is nothing wrong about being different. Lenna’s pockets are filled to the brim with cookies as she walks past the Hub, the center of Cornucopia. On her way to Mal’s house, she describes her life as it is right now to the reader, such as how she has a cottage by Nan’s house, or that Jarro’s former friends, Edd and Remy, now work in Lenna’s family’s mine. Eventually, Lenna arrives at Mal’s house, showing her some wheat that she had gotten along the way, as well as her pockets stuffed with cookies. From there, Lenna and Mal head toward the door in the wall leading to New Cornucopia to have "lunfast" with Chug, Tok, and Jarro when they are stopped by a guard named Lars, who just happens to be Lenna’s oldest brother. Lars puts away his sword and pulls out a book as he asks for their names. Mal asks why, and he says that the Elders have decided that they have to keep track of who enters and leaves Cornucopia at all times. Jami, one of the town’s sheep farmers, is also a guard and intervenes, but Mal and Lenna give Lars their names so as not to cause trouble. Lars then asks as to where they are going, saying that they have to keep track of that as well, and Mal says that they are "going" to New Cornucopia to meet up with their friends. As Mal and Lenna leave, Lars warns the two not to get Jami mad, as they report back to the Elders on a daily basis to see if any demerits can be handed out. Mal and Lenna scurry through the door, wondering what that was about. Mal thinks that it was Elder Stu and Elder Gabe’s idea, knowing that it used to be just one guard in regular clothing up to two days ago. Nonetheless, the two hurry over to have "lunfast" with Chug, Tok, and Jarro.

Eventually, Mal and Lenna arrive at Chug and Tok’s shop, enjoying a "lunfast" of pies, steak, potatoes, and bread. Jarro also shows up with his pet cat, Meowy, and a spotted baby horse named Al. Tok then asks Lenna if Nan has any books on redstone, and she says that she never heard of redstone before. Mal then says that she finds some red blocks that make a kind of red dust, with Tok exclaiming that it is redstone and that he is experimenting with it. Lenna then reiterates that she hasn’t seen any book about redstone at Nan’s house, with her collection being mostly of books on plants and mobs, and says that her family back at the mine might know more, much to everyone else’s disgust. Chug then brings up the time that Lars fell face-first in a "cow patty", making everyone laugh. Eventually, they all finish eating, with Mal and Lenna heading back into Cornucopia so the former can do some chores. Mal then milks the cows on her pasture before she and Lenna bring a bucket of milk over to Nan’s cottage near the wall. As they arrive, they oddly find the door to the cottage open, and as they head inside, Mal cries out at Nan for what she sees.

=== Chapter 3: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she is shocked to find Nan stretched out on the floor, with her skin "grayish and slack". Mal and Lenna carefully pull Nan up and help her to bed. Mal then asks Nan as to how she is feeling, and Nan says that she was outside, reading a book, when she felt like her heart was fluttering. She then went inside to get a drink, but felt nauseous and fell to the ground. Mal has Lenna stay with Nan to keep her company while she goes to the Hub to talk with Tini and Elder Gabe about the situation. Mal soon arrives at Tini’s shop and explains the situation to her, and the two then head over to Elder Gabe’s shop. Mal explains to Elder Gabe about the situation, but he and Tini dismiss it at first as getting older and just imagination. Mal then asks as to why they would think she is imagining Nan as being ill, and the two give in and help her. Upon heading back to Nan’s cottage, Tini and Elder Gabe inspect Nan while Lenna pages through several books as she tries to figure out what’s wrong with her. Tini then says to Nan that she clearly believes that age has caught up to her, but Nah vehemently denies this, saying that she has about thirty years left in her. Elder Gabe concurs with Tini, saying that there is nothing they can do other than feeding her beetroot soup. Nan shouts that she’d rather die and asks for them to leave, which they do. She then says to Mal and Lenna that they can’t help her, exclaiming that her illness is beyond the use of potions. Mal shakes Nan gently as she asks as to what she needs, and Nan murmurs that she needs an enchanted golden apple before falling unconscious.

=== Chapter 4: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he wonders as to how to get an enchanted golden Apple as Mal runs back to his workshop. Tok, Chug, and Jarro then stuff as many books and potions as they can into their pockets and head back to Nan’s cottage as fast as they can. Upon arriving, Lenna and Tok go through all of Nan’s books to find information about the enchanted golden apple, Chug paces around the room, Jarro is slowly taking petals off a flower, and Mal is holding Nan’s hand, murmuring at her to wake up and explain how to get the enchanted golden apple. Jarro then explains that Elder Gabe and Tini decided not to use potions on Nan because they didn’t want to be held responsible if Nan took a turn for the worse, stating that people would doubt the Elders if Nan died under their watch. Tok concurs, saying that he is open to taking risks, and asks for Mal’s approval in giving Nan potions. Mal agrees despite Chug interjecting about the possibility of a potion turning Nan into a monster, and so Tok gives Nan a drop of a healing potion. Nan wakes up to the surprise of Mal, but Nan states that she doesn’t feel any better, but is suspicious of Tok’s actions. He states that they just want to know about how to find the enchanted golden apple. Nan decides to tell them a story, saying that there were originally ten Founders of Cornucopia, much to everyone’s shock and surprise. Mal wonders as to why they never heard about this, and Nan says that it’s because only the people that stay write the history. The two other Founders are named Efram and Cleo, with Nan stating that the Founders had to cross a giant ocean to get to the land that is today home to Cornucopia. Cleo ended up dying at the hands of a drowned, and Efram ousted himself from the rest of the group, saying that "the thought of seeing everyone else thriving and happy while he suffered" was too much for him, and wanted to build a home in the middle of the ocean. The other Founders attempted to reason with Efram, even going as far as stating that they would go back to their old city and start anew, but Efram refused and dove into the sea, never to be seen again. Nan then states that Efram loved finding treasure in odd places, including the enchanted golden apple, which he happened to save in case anything happened to Cleo; because Cleo died at the hands of a drowned, that was no longer possible. Lenna then asks if Efram still has the enchanted golden apple, and Nan says that although Efram never told her what he did to get it, she says that she saw it only once, when Efram pulled it out to show it to Cleo. Nan still believes that Efram is alive and living in a house in the middle of the ocean, so the group (Mal, Chug, Tok, Jarro, and Lenna) prepare to find him.

Chug and Jarro head off to New Cornucopia to stock up on horses and supplies, while Tok brings his crafting table, brewing stand, furnace, and potion ingredients. Lenna fills her pockets with cookie and arrows while Mal fills her pockets with various foods. Tok, Mal, and Lenna then head toward New Cornucopia, but are stopped by Lars and Jami, saying that the Elders said that a new rule was set up so people could only go through the door twice per day. Tok leaves in a huff, with Mal and Lenna following him. He turns by Mal’s farm, with Mal wondering as to what he is doing. Tok then says that they will get outside, but not through the door. When the wall comes into view, Lenna asks Mal if she has her pickaxe, and Mal laughs, knowing the Elders have forgotten that the wall can be mined as it is just stone. Mal then mines out a hole big enough for them to slip through and then places the blocks back as if the wall was never breached. The three then run alongside the wall toward New Cornucopia, with Tok explaining to Chug about the new rule, much to Chug’s disgust. As the group mount their horses, they notice Lars running toward them. Mal kicks her horse, causing everyone to take off toward the village with the beacon.

=== Chapter 5: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he and the others (Mal, Tok, Lenna, and Jarro) continue toward the village with the beacon. Chug explains to the reader about how it feels good for him to be back in the Overworld, and how it feels good for everyone else to be back on an adventure. Eventually, as the sun sets, the group find a small wooden shelter and decide to rest for the night. Jarro has the horses corralled into the attached paddock while Chug starts working on dinner. Chug then asks Mal if she is okay, and she says that she is worried about Nan and the town of Cornucopia, and despises the Elders for making rules that seem weird to her. Chug suggests for Mal to move to New Cornucopia, but she questions about how she would visit her parents or Nan and says that she wishes that she could be an Elder and help make the rules. The group soon eat and then sleep, and then head through the village the next morning. As they head through a plains biome, Lenna notices Poppy, her pet wolf, as its ears begin to twitch and its fur starts to stand up around its spine. She then looks behind the group and feels like that they are being followed.

=== Chapter 6: Jarro ===

Switching to Jarro’s POV, he mentions to the reader that he misses his pet cat, Meowy, but is excited yet scared to be part of another adventure, mentioning about being kidnapped by brigands the last time he was out in the Overworld. Jarro also talks about his horse farm and how it makes him feel like an entrepreneur. The group (Mal, Chug, Tok, Jarro, and Lenna) continue to follow Mal as they venture to an area that they had never seen before, described as "the mountains near the river but less triangular and more… cliffy", and that the rock face is topped with "weird white stuff" with "bizarre animals jumping from rock to rock". Lenna says that the white stuff is snow and that the animals are goats, much to Jarro’s suspicions. Chug wonders about what the goat is used for, and Lenna mentions that goats aren’t hostile. Chug then attempts to lure the goat with wheat, but he is rammed by the goat and flies through the air before flopping on the ground. Lenna then fires a few arrows at the goat to kill it, with Poppy running over to snag the meat it left behind. Tok and Mal then dismount their horses and hurry over to Chug, asking if he is okay. Chug says that he is as Lenna picks up a goat horn. He wonders as to how to use it, but soon everyone gets back on their horses and continue through the mountains. They eventually stop before the sun sets at a hillside by a cliff face, with Mal building a shelter in the hillside, and the rest either hunting or crafting. Jarro manages to get some honey from a beehive before a hand appears from a bush and grabs him. The hand belongs to Lenna who shushes him and shows him soon hoofprints in the ground, once again thinking that they are being followed. The two tiptoe in the path the hoofprints are heading as they hide behind bushes. Upon finding a creeper head staring at them, however, Lenna and Jarro run back to the shelter.

=== Chapter 7: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, she and Jarro soon burst into the shelter, with Chug wonder as to what is wrong. Jarro immediately shouts that it was a creeper, but Chug seems skeptical. Lenna then rebuttals that they both saw it, and Chug then says that its probably why she thought they were being followed. Lenna is skeptical at that remark. Everyone then eats dinner, which consists of cooked salmon, mushroom stew, baked potatoes, and pumpkin pie. Jarro then shows to the group the honey that he had collected from a beehive, much to Chug’s surprise, in which he and Tok mention when Chug attempted to collect some honey but got stung several times by bees. The group then fall asleep and continue heading toward the ocean the next morning, only for them to stop and make shelter at sunset in a meadow. Mal quickly makes a shelter in the ground and everyone heads inside as it starts to rain. Chug wakes up Lenna the next morning after with bread buttered with honey, and the group finally make it to the ocean. Stopping at a beach just before the ocean, Jarro decides to stay behind to build a shelter for everyone, their pets, and their horses. Meanwhile, Tok gives everyone else and himself potions of water breathing, and they dive into the ocean.

=== Chapter 8: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she is excited to see numerous fish, plants, and squid as she swims through the ocean. The group (Mal, Lenna, Chug, and Tok) soon meet up with a dolphin, but decide to spread out with everyone about twenty feet apart from each other. Chug is then attacked by a drowned, so everyone assists in killing it. After drinking potions of healing, the group decide to head to a chain of islands off in the distance to craft some boats, with Tok suggesting that it would be safer that way instead of swimming in the ocean. Upon breaking the surface and swimming ashore, Tok has Mal fish, much to her surprise as she had never fished before. After getting enough fish for the group to eat for a few days, Chug sets out the fish to cook before heading out to catch some pufferfish, which is needed to brew potions of water breathing. Lenna comes back from walking around the island, having found some eggs and chickens, and Tok starts crafting boats. Mal then shows Lenna and Tok the enchanted book that she got from fishing, much to their shock and disbelief. Mal then sits down and takes in the gentle breeze, thinking about Jarro and the group’s previous adventures. Just then, Chug comes back with pufferfish, several cod, and a saddle. The cod is cooked and eaten as Tok finishes crafting the boats and brews the potions of water breathing. It isn’t long before the four go into the boats, with Mal and Lenna in one, and Tok and Chug in the other. As they row away from the island, Lenna wonders as to why anyone would live out here, and Mal says that Nan said that Efram wanted to get away from people so he wouldn’t be easy to find. The two then wonder as to how much longer the Elders can control them, understanding that they saved Cornucopia twice and can support themselves. Lenna then sees something in the water, causing her to fall in the water from leaning on the edge of the boat. Upon breaking the surface, she exclaims that she sees Efram’s house.