<noinclude>{{fiction|third|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 13 ===

Bobbie tells herself that she won’t be gone from Plaintown for long as herself, Johnny, and Ben traverse through the mineshaft. Ben soon stops and sets up some beds for the night, saying that they would have to travel east to get to Savannaton. After he and Bobbie discuss about the Overworld and the many structures that were allegedly built by someone, Bobbie ties Johnny to a fence post and she and Ben soon fall asleep. Bobbie is awoken the next morning by Ben throwing an egg at her face; he says that it was because of Johnny, who now stood at the foot of the bed and was surrounded by torches. Ben then says that he scouted the surface and found the path that leads to Savannaton. Bobbie immediately questions Ben for leaving her alone, but Ben says that he wouldn’t abandon them. Ben then says that he found something that would help make the trip easier, revealing a carved pumpkin.

=== Chapter 14 ===

Ben places the carved pumpkin on Johnny’s head; Johnny feels unsteady on his feet as a result. Bobbie feels as if Johnny thinks he is being mocked by Ben, but Ben says that the carved pumpkin is both "form and function" in one, noting that Johnny hadn’t burned up in the sun with the pumpkin on. Although Bobbie is glad that they can now traverse the surface by daylight, she feels like that there is another option beside the carved pumpkin. Ben then suggest that Johnny wear her iron helmet in exchange for her wearing the carved pumpkin, but she ultimately declines to do so. Ben then places down a small marker, consisting of two blocks of stone and a torch, before moving on. Ben feels confident that they would be able to make it to Savannaton before nightfall, but soon notices a figure up ahead on the horizon. He draws out his sword as himself and Bobbie get into a brief argument about their characteristics, but Bobbie soon recognizes the figure as Riley, the Wandering Trader, along with their trader llamas. Bobbie heads over to Riley to talk about everything that happened until now whereas Ben keeps a distance between them, noting that he isn’t particularly fond of llamas. Ben then asks Bobbie if she and Riley understand each other, and she says that the language that the villager people make sound "quite poetic" to her. Just then, Ben notices Johnny is standing very still. He inquires Bobbie about it, but she is busy talking to Riley. As Bobbie looks in her inventory, Johnny pulls free from her grasp and lunges at the nearest trader llama, causing the trader llamas to spit at Johnny and for the wandering trader to drink a potion of invisibility, vanishing from view. Bobbie soon regains control of Johnny as the trader llamas run off, and gives him a nautilus shell that she had bought from Riley for five emeralds, much to Ben’s disgust, knowing that they need armor. He then asks Bobbie not to spend any more emeralds without talking to him first, and Bobbie says to Ben that he can do whatever he wants with the emeralds that he earns for completing his part of the bargain. Ben then puts his sword away as they close in on Savannaton, but he doesn’t notice the column of smoke above the horizon.

=== Chapter 15 ===

Upon arriving at Savannaton, Ben asks as to what happened, and Bobbie immediately thinks that it was another zombie siege. Ben asks her if she is sure about that, and also says that it definitely wouldn’t be the same group of zombies that destroyed Plaintown. As they survey the damage, Bobbie asks if the villagers left anything useful here, much to Ben’s delight. He heads inside a home but soon freezes in his tracks and cries out for help as he notices a spider. Bobbie rushes in to save him, but she is stopped in her tracks by cobwebs. Ben, by natural instinct, shoots the spider with an arrow from his bow, and Bobbie eventually finishes it off in two hits with her sword, not before breaking away some cobwebs. After picking up the spider eye that had been dropped, as well as scouting the entire village for food and loot (the two were only able to find some bread, rotten flesh, a shield, and a map that focused on a swamp), Ben decides to set up shelter in Savannaton for the night. Bobbie then insists that she be left here, knowing that there would be no difference if she was brought back to Plaintown, and offers Ben a stack of emeralds. Ben insists that he hasn’t delivered in his part and still hopes to find a cure for Johnny, much to Bobbie’s surprise, who wanted to hug Ben then and there. Bobbie then wonders as to where to go next, and Ben says that the map that he saw had detail about a witch.

=== Chapter 16 ===

The three make it to a mangrove swamp by nightfall. Bobbie asks Ben if he has any better gear due to him adventuring for a while, but Ben says that he lost it before he met her from someone that he trusted. Bobbie turns this into a supposed cycle of plundering (Ben being plundered by someone and then him plundering the village as a way to resupply) before they are interrupted by a giant slime. Fortunately, it, and the smaller slimes that spawn from it, are killed with ease.

=== Chapter 17 ===

Ben has Bobbie collect the slimeballs that had been dropped before he decides to craft two boats for himself and Bobbie to traverse the mangrove swamp. Bobbie wonders as to why she and Ben are in separate boats, and Ben says that he is worried about a lot of things, with one of them being possibly bitten by Johnny, who is riding along in Bobbie’s boat. Eventually, the two come across a swamp hut that is home to a witch. At first, Ben attempts to have Bobbie talk to the witch, but after listening to it, Bobbie admits that she can’t understand what the witch is saying. Ben then decides to go around the hut to distract the witch while Bobbie paddles to the far side of it. After some time, Ben wonders as to where Bobbie is, but she soon reappears from one of the stilts holding up the hut. Bobbie says that she rummaged through the witch’s belongings and found a book with different potion recipes, along with a bone on the floor of the hut for Johnny to gnaw on. The two then leave, with Bobbie "promising" to the witch that she’ll try to find a way to bring the book back to her.

=== Chapter 18 ===

As sunrise is on the horizon, Ben and Bobbie decide to set up a small space against a low hill on the outskirts of the swamp, with room for beds and crafting tables and a torch for light should they decide to stay there for the day. Bobbie begins reading through the book that she had stolen from the witch, which mentions that the witch was once a cleric villager who used the book to record potion recipes, but it was struck by lightning, causing the villager to transform into a witch. Eventually, Bobbie finds a page in the book with information about curing zombification and shows Ben a drawing of a golden apple. Ben says that golden apples do exist and are craftable before Bobbie flips to the next page, which says that a golden apple combined with a potion of weakness would cure zombification. Bobbie feels delighted and asks Ben for a hug, but he says he’ll do so later, noting Johnny growling beside her. Bobbie then asks Ben if he can show her how to craft a golden apple, but he says that they would be better off finding one, noting that his friend, Logan, found one once. Ben then pulls out the maps that he had taken from the cartographer’s houses, and soon finds one that indicates a woodland mansion is nearby. He says to Bobbie that golden apples can be found there sometimes, and she asks about who lives in the mansion. Ben says that he’ll double-check their fear and then sleep for the night, knowing that they would be "in for a very tough fight". The next morning, Ben has Bobbie teach him about calming down Johnny when he is close to him. Ben takes an iron boot in one hand and Johnny’s bone in the other before going within range of him. Johnny ignores the bone and goes straight for Ben, gnawing on the iron boot in his hand. Bobbie says that Johnny will eventually understand that the bone is better for him, noting that it took herself a few hours each day over several days for her to master calming down Johnny. Ben then asks Bobbie if he could give her a lesson on something, and she asks as to what would be taught. Ben then says that she’ll be learning about combat.