=== Chapter 36 ===

While the Overworld Overlords go after the wither, Bobbie and Johnny finally pull Benjamin free of the zombie horde as Logan watches from a distance on his horse. Ben wonders if Logan is formulating a plan to help them or take credit for killing the wither at the last moment, before asking Bobbie and Benjamin if everyone is okay. Bobbie says that they are, while also wondering if the Overlords will actually be able to defeat the wither. Ben says that it could go either way, knowing that they have the gear, but they aren’t trying to work as a team. Suddenly, Major Miner breaks away from the group and charges directly at the wither, but a blue wither skull launches directly at him, killing him and leaving behind a wither rose and the contents of his inventory, including stacks of golden apples, numerous potions, and the flask of dragon’s breath that they need. Just then, Logan rushes forward with his horse and picks up the necessary items in one swoop, rushing back to Bobbie, Ben, and Benjamin just as quickly. Benjamin then bounces to his feet, saying that he knows where to find a brewing stand, and Bobbie trusts in him to find it. He then gives Bobbie back her netherite sword, along with some diamond boots, arrows, and numerous weapons, before going back through the hole at the base of the hill. Bobbie and Ben then decide to attack the wither.

=== Chapter 37 ===

As the two prepare to attack it, Benjamin rings the bell in the center of the village, allowing the villagers to take shelter in their homes. Bobbie and Ben then encircle the wither, firing every arrow they could. Kyro joined in as well, but then, with the wither down to half of its health, it now becomes immune to arrows. Fortunately, Logan was there with his sword to attack it, with Kyro and Diamond Jubilee following along. Meanwhile, Ben brews the dragon’s breath with a splash potion of Weakness to make it a lingering potion. He then tosses it against a zombie that had snuck up behind Bobbie, causing an area effect cloud to form. Numerous zombies then go after them, with Bobbie scanning each face to find a zombie villager. She felt relief with every zombie that she had cured, which included her parents, as the cured villagers headed toward the village that Benjamin was in. Johnny still refused to take an apple, however, as he distracted and killed the other zombies. Once the cloud had been cleared, only a dozen zombies remained, as well as the wither, with Bobbie wondering why it hadn’t been defeated yet. To no surprise, Kyro, Logan, and Diamond Jubilee were attacking each other in-between blows as the wither begins charging toward the village. With no time to spare and no viability for alternate options, Ben steps into the field of wither roses, pushing as hard as he could and ignoring the pain that seethed in him. With all the strength he had left, he thrust the sword into the wither, killing it. Ben then sinks to the ground as Logan takes his hand, whispering to him that he can let go. Ben is then assumed to be dead.

=== Chapter 38 ===

Fortunately, Ben was pulled away from the wither roses in the nick of time to stay alive, and wonders as to what had happened. Benjamin says that Logan walked right into the flowers as he had the totem of undying, and drank all the milk he could as soon as he was away from the wither roses. He adds that the totem is very rare and valuable and is dropped from evokers, and Ben is in disbelief that Logan would use it to save him. Bobbie interjects and says that it was after he stole it from her. Logan chuckles, knowing that it isn’t his fault if they don’t recognize that something is valuable, but Bobbie says that she does, knowing that life is more valuable than any riches in the world.

=== Epilogue: Benjamin ===

Benjamin decides to use the nether star that had dropped from the wither, along with some obsidian from Hatchet and Flip’s obsidian trap and glass that he had inadvertently made while battling Paulie to craft a beacon, placing it in an area that would be the heart of a new outpost for a new set of heroes. As the group part ways, Kyro decides to take up the role as Benjamin’s squire.

=== Epilogue 2: Ben ===

Meanwhile, Ben and Logan meet up with Paulie at his shipwreck as Bobbie and Johnny head back to Plaintown with thirty villagers in tow. Ben apologizes for blowing up the shipwreck, and Logan says that he feels better for helping others. They decide to plug up the hole in the ship as Logan begins talking with Paulie about the obsidian trap.

=== Epilogue 3: Logan ===

Logan is back to basics, but still has to work on scaling back some of his aggression. He is deep underground, fighting numerous zombies, skeletons, and creepers, and although he has the skills necessary to survive, he is starting to feel a bit lonely. Nonetheless, Logan hoped that the next few times would show more of his good side than his bad side, and he was welcome to Plaintown anytime, but for now, he was his own audience by killing zombies.

=== Epilogue 4: Bobbie ===

With everything seemingly back to normal, Bobbie decides to retire from adventuring and go back to her quiet life of being a villager. Rather than go back to Plaintown, however, she decides to settle in the village where Cleric Avery is. Johnny, at first, still refuses to be cured, but after his parents nearly ran off, he got hit with the splash potion of Weakness and ate the golden apple without complaining, and then took a bath to clean himself. Bobbie would hope that he would be a good armorer one day, and set up a job block without telling Ben to tip the odds in her favor. Bobbie was also expecting for Ben to depart for new adventures, but he decides to stay and help train the villagers in combat. They were slow and reluctant to learn, however, as they now had an iron golem again, named Junior, which was made thanks to Bobbie using the pumpkin that Johnny used to wear. Finally, at the center of the village, she planted the sapling of an oak tree, and with that, New Plaintown felt complete. Just then, cries of alarm erupt in the village, and Bobbie and Ben head directly to the outskirts, noticing an adventurer that is battered and bruised who nearly collapses into Bobbie’s arms. She says that she is seeking heroes who can turn the tide against "a great evil" that had been let loose upon the land, and although Bobbie and Ben admit that they are just simply villagers and are now retired, they admit that it couldn’t hurt to hear the details about what is going on.

[[Category:Minecraft: Zombies Unleashed! chapters]]