=== Chapter 1 ===

As the sun sets down in the Overworld, the narrator mentions that Logan has a strategy for defeating each "monstrous mob" in the Overworld, ranging from skeletons to creepers and zombies, but has also lost his own horde of zombies. Bobbie realized that they are late once again as she, Logan, Ben, and Other Ben (preferring to be called Benjamin), along with Bobbie’s younger brother, Johnny, who is a zombie villager, notice a destroyed village off in the distance, leaving behind wither roses. Logan advises the group not to touch them as one of the Ben’s scowls back at him that they aren’t fools, knowing that they are going after a wither. A regular zombie is then seen off in the distance, with Logan unsure if it is one of his own. He draws his diamond sword to attack it, but Bobbie shouts at him to put it away. Logan scoffs at the idea, but does so after realizing his past actions of burning down Bobbie’s village as revenge for the villagers not allowing him to trade for resources, as well as what happened when Pigstep Peggy spawned the wither in the first place, which caused him to lose his horde of zombies. However, despite him joining Bobbie and the Bens in an effort to take down the wither, he doesn’t feel like he’ll stay around for long, and couldn’t get rid of the feeling that they, along with their rules, would get him killed.

=== Chapter 2 ===

Meanwhile, Bobbie had never been a fan of adventurers, as she grew up in a village and was annoyed by their behavior that seemed to be self-centered, but she has seemed to envy them lately, not realizing how easy adventurers spent their lives. Bobbie could easily handle killing one zombie, but it was much harder for her to survive a horde of them. As she holds up a hand to keep Logan from attacking the zombie, she also says to the zombie not to hurt her as she as trying to do it a favor. The zombie then growls as if it was ignoring her. Benjamin then asks Bobbie as to why they can’t just kill all of the zombies, and Bobbie explains that there are two kinds of zombies: normal ones and zombie villagers, and the latter kind are the only kind of zombies that can be cured by using potions of weakness and golden apples. Ben then points to one of the zombies that he had saved from Logan’s horde, and Bobbie says that it isn’t, given that it didn’t have the nose of the villager, and its eyes were completely black. Benjamin then kills the regular zombie with an arrow shot from his bow, with Logan complaining that he had dibs on that zombie. Benjamin then taunts him, jokingly saying that he feels like he is slowing down. Bobbie almost laughed, but she ended up sighing instead, coming to her senses that she was now an adventurer like them. Ben then asks her if she is alright, and she says that she is, adding that she hopes that they can find a zombie villager to test the cure. As they continue through the destroyed village, Ben draws his sword, prompting Bobbie to ask what is wrong. A dozen doorways are then seen, with a zombie coming out of each of them. Bobbie hopes that one of them is indeed a zombie villager, and Ben himself hopes that Bobbie and Logan both get their wishes to come true, being zombies to cure, and zombies to kill.

=== Chapter 3 ===

Meanwhile, Ben loves being an adventurer, enjoying the thrill and facing new challenges, but he has started to get tired of zombies. As the two dozen zombies staggered out of the wrecked houses in the village, he noticed some of them wore iron armor, which marked them as previously part of Logan’s horde of zombies. Ben warns Bobbie that they are about to be surrounded by them, and Bobbie says to contain them instead of killing them. Ben does so by placing down some stone blocks between himself and the nearest zombies that he comes across, hoping to box them in so Bobbie can observe them later. However, Ben is the one to nearly box himself in, almost completely surrounded by stone blocks and entrapped with a zombie, but is able to hear Other Ben complaining about cobwebs off in the distance. Ben begins to panic, as he got trapped in cobwebs once above a pool of lava, but he is able to overcome his fear to save Other Ben from being killed by knocking a zombie out of his way. The group then decide to take a breather as Ben places down some stone blocks beside them just as Bobbie recognizes that one of the zombie villagers resembles Avery, the cleric from her village. Ben then works quickly to craft a golden apple as Bobbie throws a splash potion of Weakness at Avery, followed by Ben shoving the apple directly into its mouth. At first, Bobbie thinks that nothing is happening, but Ben notices that Avery is trembling. Eventually, Avery turns back into a normal villager. Bobbie is happy that Avery is now cured, and Ben mentions that Johnny is next in line. Johnny, however, decides to run in the other direction, swallowed up in the sea of zombies that surrounded them. 

=== Chapter 4 ===

Meanwhile, Benjamin is reloading his crossbow as Logan attacks a zombie with his diamond sword enchanted with Fire Aspect. Bobbie comes by and asks Logan as to what he is doing, but he scoffs it off, saying that he is only killing the zombies that do not resemble villagers. As Benjamin fires an arrow at a flaming zombie nearby, he rushes over to aid Bobbie and Ben with finding Johnny, and they soon find him hiding in the dark of an abandoned house, growling at the three as they approach him. Bobbie feels like something is off with Johnny and asks for Benjamin to stay back in case he loses his temper. Benjamin then interjects, saying that he can take care of himself, before immediately feeling guilty about what he just said, adding that it felt like it was his fault for aiding Logan with releasing a horde of zombies on villagers because he didn’t try to talk him out of it. Bobbie then says that it wouldn’t have made a difference anyway if he tried to do so, adding that Logan is just stubborn and shows no remorse for his actions. Bobbie then shows Johnny the splash potion of Weakness, and he snarls and snaps at her, making her wonder as to what is wrong. Benjamin then realizes that Johnny doesn’t want to be cured and remain a zombie, and Johnny purrs, seemingly in agreement.

=== Chapter 5 ===

Bobbie couldn’t believe at what was suggested: Johnny seemingly refusing to turn himself back to normal. Ben and Logan then start an argument about just going through with curing him anyway, and Benjamin and Bobbie also get involved, with the former thinking that Johnny shouldn’t be treated like a kid, and also gives Bobbie a pep talk to help her defeat the wither. Bobbie ultimately decides to go forward to defeating it, adding that Johnny will be cured the moment that that is done. Sometime later, just before daybreak, Ben asks Bobbie as to what Logan is doing outside of the one home that they are taking shelter in. She decides to observe Logan for a bit before deciding to go talk to him, adding that she would like to know him better to be sure they’ll work together. Ben then warns Bobbie to put her armor on before going out to chat with Logan, hoping that he doesn’t turn on her later on.

=== Chapter 6 ===

Logan had already known that Bobbie and Ben were talking about him well before the former came out to try to talk to him. Bobbie says to Logan that she is suspicious of him, although she does admit that his combat skills are warranted for going after the wither. She does ask Logan, however, if he could sit back and let the wither be everyone else’s problem. Logan says that the destruction that he caused was for a purpose that he had, yet the destruction that the wither is causing is pointless. Bobbie agrees, adding that each wither rose they come across is a life that was lost to the wither, and that he can have a chance to redeem himself and prove his haters wrong by taking down the wither. Logan then interjects, saying that he is trying to be the best, but Bobbie says that it feel lonely being at the top, with nowhere to go but down, and that he should consider that other people are there to catch him from going mad before it ends up being too late.

=== Chapter 7 ===

As the sun rises over the abandoned village, Bobbie decides to keep Avery safe in the area for the time being by repairing the temple and surrounding it with a high fence, countless torches, and an iron door. Meanwhile, Benjamin decides to craft some arrows and torches behind the temple to restock on their supply. The group (Bobbie, Ben, Logan, and Benjamin) then leave the abandoned village to track down the wither, with Bobbie and Benjamin mentioning that they would need to cure forty-two villagers along the way, including ten from Savannaton, and twelve from Bobbie’s village of Plaintown. Logan then suggests for Bobbie to use dragon’s breath to turn her splash potions into lingering potions to give the Weakness effect an area cloud, allowing her to cure multiple zombie villagers at once. Benjamin scoffs at that idea, knowing that they would need to kill the ender dragon, but Logan sheepishly mentions that someone else already did, adding that they would just need to steal the bottle from their treasure room, referring to the Overworld Overlords. Bobbie’s eyes go wide and her shoulders sag upon hearing the name of that group, but she realizes that she has no choice but to head back to the outpost that she had destroyed.

[[Category:Minecraft: Zombies Unleashed! chapters]]