=== Chapter 8 ===

Amy marches herself toward the edge of town, deciding to save Marc alone. Just then, Gummo, prepping his gear nearby, jogs around Amy and blocks her path, wondering why she isn’t getting help from her parents. Amy says that she doesn’t have time to wait for them and motions for Gummo to move out of her way. He raises his hands and takes a step back, saying that he isn’t sure if it’s a good idea to go alone, adding that Amy’s mom and dad could have a background in adventuring. Indeed, Amy’s mom and dad had dabbled in adventuring in their younger days, but Amy herself had no heart of an adventurer, yet she still insists on saving Marc alone. Gummo gives in and decides to take her halfway there on the condition that Amy suit herself up with suitable armor. Amy says that she doesn’t have the emeralds to buy anything else, but Gummo says that they can craft some gear off what she already has on her. Amy insists to Gummo that he doesn’t need to do so, but Gummo stands his ground, adding that he is as kind as Marc and other adventurers might not give Amy the same conditions that he himself is giving. Amy apologizes and decides to let him help her, starting with gear.

=== Chapter 9 ===

After gearing up with new pickaxes and shovels, Amy, Gummo, and Tuna, Amy’s pet cat, begin heading toward the mansion, walking through the Northern Forest toward Fred’s mansion. Gummo says to Amy that Fred’s full name is Fred Tildergore, and that he built the mansion known as Glory’s Haven centuries ago, collecting treasures that he hoarded in the mansion. Amy scoffs it off as hot air, and Gummo agrees, adding that the tales fall apart whenever they are questioned about it, but he says that there is still a chance that there could be treasure like enchanted books or diamonds in the mansion. Amy then brings up the other map that Gummo had bought, assuming it is a map of the Northern Forest. Gummo stops and faces Amy, asking her if she is calling him a liar, and Amy says that is just wondering as to what is so important about his quest. Gummo then pulls out the map, showing a dotted line leading to a red "X" in a wide blue area, saying that he is after a heart of the sea. Amy then apologizes, adding that she didn’t mean to offend him. Gummo then says to Amy that although he appreciates her situation, he adds that adventuring is competitive and he has his own reasons for why he does it and what he is after.

Gummo then asks Amy as to what she does, and she says that she likes to mine for ore, but stopped when she get herself and Marc into trouble often for doing so. Gummo adds that he used to love mining for ore as well, but eventually stopped. Amy then brings up a rumor that elytra that mend by themselves could be at Glory’s Haven, and Gummo dismisses it as a "fool’s dream". The two continue to walk in silence, with Amy wondering if Marc is okay. Tuna eventually gets bored of being cuddled in Amy’s arms and walks beside her, meowing for food. Amy says to Tuna that they would need to save some food for the trip back home, as her mom would have extra treats for her. This makes Amy start to feel guilty about ditching her mom and dad, wondering if they would set off to find her. Tuna’s meowing interrupted Amy’s thoughts, and Tuna scampered off into some nearby bushes. Gummo asks Amy if that is a problem, and she says that it isn’t, adding that Tuna does this all the time. Gummo then reminds her that they would need to find some suitable shelter, as the sun is starting to set.

=== Chapter 10 ===

Gummo and Amy soon find a shallow cave and dig up some dirt to create a shelter within it, big enough to move around and set up spots for beds. Amy then sets up a campfire, and the two briefly discuss about mining before falling asleep in the shelter. During the night, Amy and Gummo are woken up by the sounds of silverfish in their shelter, and Amy makes an exit to find a place to hide as to not multiply the silverfish, while Gummo attempts to distract the silverfish. Heading north, she eventually stops, but is quickly surrounded by zombies, so she carries Tuna tightly and runs in a zigzag pattern to fend them off.

=== Chapter 11 ===

Amy eventually makes a hiding spot, staying there throughout the remainder of the night. By sunrise, she peeks out by breaking a block of dirt with her shovel, and carries Tuna with her back to the cave. The rest of her gear was left untouched, but Amy is disheartened when there is no sign of Gummo. He then appears beside Amy, making her scream and asking him what is wrong with him and why he didn’t try to find her. Gummo says that he was wondering if Amy would come back here and adds that he had to hide because the whole area was swarming with zombies. The two then gather their gear and continue heading farther into the forest, soon noticing smoke to the northeast, and they slowly approach it. Just then, a woman clad in leather armor appears behind them, described as having long brown hair and smiling warmly. She tells them that she has some leftover pork for them to eat, walking toward the campfire and motioning for them to follow her.

=== Chapter 12 ===

Gummo and Amy follow the woman, now named Marjorie, to the campfire, with Amy chowing down on the cooked pork as best she could. She, Gummo, and Marjorie discuss for a bit about heading to Glory’s Haven, with Marjorie mentioning that she had met Marc a few days ago, much to Amy’s surprise. Marjorie then offers Amy and Gummo to lead them down the path that Marc took, but Gummo quickly packs up his belongings and starts to leave. Amy helps herself to the leftovers at Marjorie’s request before she leaves as well, and Marjorie waves at the, with a frown on her face as they leave. Amy feels bad to leave her suddenly, but she quickens her pace to catch up with Gummo, wanting to know what it was about Marjorie that made him freak out.

=== Chapter 13 ===

Amy and Gummo stand outside the Northern Forest, hesitant to head into it, and Amy asks Gummo about his situation with Marjorie. Gummo says that he was suspicious about her and doesn’t trust her. Ash counters that she was nice for giving them food, and Gummo says that they could’ve gotten sick from the food. Eventually, the two gather up enough courage to head into the Northern Forest, but take a quick rest to eat some leftovers. Gummo then smells something off in the distance and runs toward it, with Amy following quickly behind him. The two eventually end up in an open grassy field, and Amy is amazed at what she sees.

=== Chapter 14 ===

The thing that Amy and Gummo both see is an extremely large house with a huge body of water behind it. Amy yanks the extra copy of Marc’s forged map from her pocket and stares at it, noticing that the distances are way off. Amy and Gummo had barely walked between two-to-three thousand blocks to get to the house, while the map shows that the house was between ten-to-twenty thousand blocks away. Nonetheless, Gummo is 100% certain that the house is Glory’s Haven, and the two walk closer toward it. Glory’s Haven is made entirely of dark oak and is two stories tall, and the back of it has an egress entrance that leads to a basement. Gummo believes that Marc entered the front door, as Amy paces back and forth, trying to find any signs of life. She then walks into the pier, looking out at the water, noticing a small island with a tiny mountain on it. Amy quickly refocuses her priorities on saving Marc, and heads back around to the front of the house, noticing that Gummo is gone.

Thinking he went ahead, Amy heads into Glory’s Haven. To her left is a closet, and to her right is a parlor with nothing in it. Cobwebs hung from the ceiling, and there were numerous stains on the walls. Amy then calls out for Gummo, but gets no response. Amy cautiously steps in as Tuna checks out another room. Amy walks into the parlor just to be safe, noticing torches lining the walls and the floor being pockmarked in various places. A thud then sounds from above, startling her, and Tuna runs into the parlor with a soft yelp. Amy and Tuna then head back to the entrance, and Amy walks toward the room that Tuna was at before, which included stairs leading to the upper floors and a hallway leading to other rooms on the first floor. Amy decides to head upstairs, as her mind scrambled between playing it safe and opening up doors to let more light in.

[[Category:Minecraft: House of Horrors chapters]]