=== Chapter 29 ===

Amy swings her sword wildly at the first phantom that swoops down at her, causing it to flail to the ground. Another one then swoops down at her, and she flanks it to the side with her shield before killing it with a quick stab of her sword. As more phantoms swoop down at Amy, she believes she hears Gummo’s voice, but is unable to see him due to the phantoms and soon loses track of him. Moving to the back of the room she came out of, Amy slips on something, causing her to be distracted long enough for a phantom to swoop down at her and knock her down, while another one bites her forearm. More phantoms began to circle above Amy as she hears Gummo call her name again. She then closes her eyes, followed by hearing a meow.

=== Chapter 30 ===

Amy is then seen screaming and batting the air, as the memory of the phantoms flying over her head was still fresh in her mind. Marc hurries over to her and presses his hand down against her shoulder, informing her that she is safe. Amy then gasps and sits up, noticing that she is back in the room that she had left Marc in. Marc then says that he went out with Tuna to look her, ultimately finding her in the room with the phantoms, in which Tuna scared them off. Gummo then seemingly appears to congratulate Amy on surviving the phantoms, but Marc questions him for showing up after he himself had gotten to Amy. The person impersonating Gummo is then revealed to be Carl, who scolds Amy for continuing on to save Marc instead of keeping her head in the ground. Marc then makes a move to attack Carl, but he raises his hand behind a painting, pulling down a lever. Amy is then shoved into a hole, and Marc leaps toward her as Carl’s laughter fills the air.

=== Chapter 31 ===

Amy, Marc, and Tuna land on a thick patch of moss in a cave, with the former asking the latter as to who Carl is. Marc explains that Carl is a washout, meaning a bad adventurer. Marc further adds that Carl would falsely accuse someone of making him look bad or stealing treasure from him. Amy then asks Marc as to why Carl is mad at him, and Marc says that he asked him to leave the group after he led them on a "treasure hunt", only to find out later that he had lied about it. This makes Amy realize that Carl had built the mansion to trap Marc and other adventurers. The two then briefly discuss about Carl and what could come next for them before deciding to continue further through the cave.

=== Chapter 32 ===

Amy, Marc, and Tuna had only walked through the cave for a short time, but the former two feel as if they are climbing a mountain, with Amy in particular feeling as if her muscles have become weaker. Marc then asks her if she had ever studied on things that live in caverns, and Amy says that she hasn’t, preferring to be at home. Marc then wonders as to how many adventurers ended up down here before the two briefly discuss about stories and saving each other before apologizing and laughing it off. The three then continue down a hallway.

=== Chapter 33 ===

Coming across a large pool in a central cavern, and Marc wonders if they could be able to swim out of here. Amy hopes to find proof that Carl has been down here to find an exit, and Marc briefly considers splitting up to check cave tunnels for rooms, but Amy insists that they stay together. Marc ultimately decides to stick with her as they check the tunnels. The first tunnel lead to a small pool of water that was home to some axolotls, and Amy notices some footprints through the length of the tunnel. Heading back to the central cavern, Amy notices a wall made of glass and a murky view of greenish/grey water. She wonders as to why Carl put this here, just before a pale green eye stares at her, making her scream.

=== Chapter 34 ===

Amy briskly walks toward where Marc had gone, who asks her as to what happened. She says that there was a big eye that almost felt like an "eye fish" looking back at her. Marc seems worried, so he heads back over to check, only to find nothing there. Heading back to Amy, he says that there is nothing there, but feels like he is heavily fatigued. Marc then says that Carl found an ocean monument and brought an elder guardian here to make his own version of an ocean monument, much to Amy’s surprise. She, Marc, and Tuna then continue to find a way out, eventually finding a door which opens to a staircase, which leads to a giant chamber with a pool of water in the middle. Amy falls to her knees as exhaustion washes over her once more, noticing an image of that giant eye as she blinks. Approaching a wall, she grabs Marc’s sword from him to check something, and the sword feels heavy in her hand as if her entire body was moving through water, concluding that they might be in trouble.

=== Chapter 35 ===

Marc pulls Amy back, and they both fall to seated positions just outside the chamber. Marc then concludes that the cave they fell into led here, with Amy concurring that Carl built under Glory’s Haven through the lush caves. Marc hopes that the chamber will lead them out of here, suspecting that Carl wanted to build an "adventuring playground". The two briefly discuss about Carl before preparing to leave, but Amy’s gaze drifts back to the pool of water where the elder guardian was, pointing to a large mass of wet hair breaking the surface. The body with the hair is barely able to pull themselves out, gasping for air, and Amy is surprised to see that it is Marjorie.

[[Category:Minecraft: House of Horrors chapters]]