<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles/Ghast in the Machine!}}</noinclude>

=== Prologue: Who’s Honking Now?! ===

A figure stands in a [[dark forest]]. The figure soon hears some noises off in the distance, making her realize that she is not alone.

=== Chapter 1: Stay in School! Unless It’s Full of Wither Skeletons. Then You Can Leave. ===

In [[Minecraft]], [[Harper Houston|Harper]], [[Morgan]], [[Jodi]], [[Po Chen|Po]], and [[Ash Kapoor|Ash]] all decide to walk through the [[Woodsword Middle School (replica)|replica]] of [[Woodsword Middle School]] that was built in [[the Nether]]. It was faithful in every element, right down to the chair placement in each classroom. Jodi says that the [[Evoker King]], under the assumption that it was the one that built, has an excellent attention to detail, while Po and Ash feel a bit creeped out. Harper asks as to why the Evoker King would do such a thing, and Morgan says that its simply to mess with then. Just then, Po opens the doors leading into the gym, which is only halfway done; there were bleachers and basketball hoops, but one wall was a large opening looking out at the landscape of the Nether. The bathroom doors in the replica have no windows unlike the others, and the other side of them is just a wall of bricks. Just then, a classroom door shatters, revealing a [[wither skeleton]]. They have no choice but to run, dodging numerous [[flame]] [[arrows]] that are hurtling toward them. Morgan says that wither skeletons aren’t supposed to have those as they continue to run. Exiting the school replica, all five soon come across a [[nether portal]] and go right through it. Harper mines out a piece of [[obsidian]] from the portal frame once everyone is back in the [[Overworld]] to make sure that nobody can follow them, but instead of heading back to the [[ocean monument]], the portal instead takes them to a barren [[desert]].

=== Chapter 2: Desert Before Dinner! Its Time Has Come! ===

Jodi realizes that this might have been the work of the Evoker King, and Morgan appears to agree, knowing that it can redirect portals on a whim. Everyone looks around the desert, which is mostly [[sand]] and [[cacti]], along with [[mountains]] off in the distance. Ash and Morgan soon notice an entrance to a [[mineshaft]] off in the distance at the foot of the mountains, guarded by three [[vexes]]. As the sun begins to set, they dig up a burrow to sleep in and disconnect, promising to check out the mineshaft tomorrow.

=== Chapter 3: The Robot Janitor Ate My Homework! ===

The next morning, in the real world, Woodsword Middle School appears to have some oddities going on. Po uses the wheelchair ramp, but the automatic doors that would normally open fail to do so. Lights are flickering in the trophy case, and the PA system has the sound of something hissing coming out of it. Po meets up with Jodi, Ash, and Harper in the hallway, and asks if any of them would know as to who the Evoker King might be. Jodi then opens her notebook, which was filled with a list of several students and observations that she had made. She is under the belief that everyone else at Woodsword is a suspect. As Harper says that they shouldn’t be snooping into everyone’s business, a water fountain blasts a jet of water on her, making her shriek. She runs off as Ash uses her notebook to block the jet from spraying as much as it could. Po then finds a red button beside the water fountain and presses it, which shuts it off.

Harper is soaked from the water and waddles down the hallway, saying that she’ll be a few minutes late for [[Ms. Minerva]]’s class. Indeed, she is a few minutes late, but the classroom is not much better in terms of oddities. The intercom plays barnyard sounds, the automated food dispenser for [[Baron Sweetcheeks]] was launching pellets every which-way every few seconds, and the digital whiteboard was showing Ms. Minerva’s vacation pictures in Mykonos, Greece instead of the daily assignments. Harper then says that she saw [[Doc Culpepper]] and offered to help her, but Doc felt too stressed to do anything. Po notices Baron running on an automated treadmill that Doc had made for it and decides to unplug it, letting Baron fall into a soft pile of cedar chips. Ash, Morgan, Po, Jodi, and Harper then all decide to go help Doc with her situation, with Ash mentioning to Morgan and Po about a supposed make-up quiz they have to take later, realizing that it’s about something else entirely.

=== Chapter 4: You Say "Potato." I Say "Duck!" ===

Doc thanks the five (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) for helping her out with the situation. She shows them a clipboard of malfunctions that are noted, but also says that there are a few more areas that need to be checked. Doc then leads them to the auditorium. Harper was expecting for there to be problems with the stage lighting or sound equipment, but didn’t expect bits of paper all over the place. As they walk to the next area, Doc explains that the cause of all the stuff happening was due to human error, pulling out a computer chip from her tool belt. Harper quickly diverts the blame away from her, saying that it could either be a hardware issue, a faulty chip, or a software problem. Jodi buts in and says that it could be caused by mythical creatures such as gremlins or unicorns. As everyone enters the cafeteria, they notice the potato scooper splattering liquid across the entire room. Jodi starts to jot down notes of the other students that are still in the cafeteria.

=== Chapter 5: Buried Secrets! (But Just So You Know, One of the Secrets Is Spiders.) ===

Back in Minecraft, instead of attacking the vexes, Morgan decides to make a "back door" into the mineshaft to avoid the conflict altogether. He asks for Jodi to be their lookout and keep an eye on the vexes; this is because her [[iron sword]] broke. Jodi tries to ask Morgan if he wants to leave her here, but Ash interjects and says that they all need to stick together, knowing that they won’t need to use weapons if Morgan’s plan ends up working. As everyone gathers up their beds and crafts some [[torches]], Ash pulls Morgan aside, saying to him to go easy on Jodi. Morgan sighs and says that he didn’t want anything to happen to her, noting the wither skeleton attack from yesterday. Ash mentions that he was just there to protect him, and that Jodi is a part of the team no matter what. Everyone then gets right to work on the side of the mountain, digging through to the mineshaft. Suddenly, they are attacked by [[cave spiders]], which the group go after with ease. Ash ends up destroying the [[Monster Spawner|spawner]] a bit further down, and everyone else kills the spiders that had already spawned. Jodi then notices a purple glowing light from around the corner. Everyone runs toward it, realizing that its another nether portal.

=== Chapter 6: We All Scream for Screen Time…or Because the Halls Are Filled with Hostile Mobs! ===

Back in the real world, all electronic devices at Woodsword Middle School are powered down and unplugged until Doc solves the glitch that was causing the devices to go haywire in the first place. In Ms. Minerva’s class, a chalkboard is used for their morning lesson. As Ms. Minerva cleans it with an eraser, both Harper and Baron sneeze from the chalk dust. Jodi asks for Harper to take a video of Baron sneezing with her smartphone (a hand-me-down from her sister), which she does. Upon opening the camera app, Harper notices a [[rabbit]] from Minecraft right next to Baron; it is only visible through the phone screen. The rabbit hops out of the room, causing Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash to follow it down the hallway. They lose sight of it as they round a corner, but the phone screen now shows [[zombies]] among the students. They then head down to the main entrance, with the phone screen showing a [[ghast]] floating above the front lawn.

As they shuffle into Doc’s classroom, Harper notices a drawing of a nether portal on the whiteboard through the phone screen. The portal appears to have a red X over it, making the others realize that maybe they shouldn’t go through the one that is in the mineshaft. Harper then turns her phone away from the board, noticing an [[enderman]] out in the hallway. Morgan shouts for Harper to look away from it, but it was too late. The enderman teleports toward Harper, filling the phone screen with its face. She shrieks, causing her to lose grip of her smartphone, which ends up hitting the floor. The screen shuts off as a piece of the phone breaks off from the impact. Doc asks as to what is going on, and Harper mentions about how the camera app was showing mobs from Minecraft. Doc says that it might be a coincidence with everything else glitching out, but Harper admits that she used some of Doc’s scraps to enhance the phone so it could run smoother. Doc, although understanding, realizes that its a bad week to use her hardware and asks to borrow the phone to look at it. Harper sheepishly gives it to her as she shudders remembering the big red X that only she and her friends had seen.

=== Chapter 7: Looking for Group! Finding Trouble! ===

After school, Jodi is ready to head back into the world of Minecraft, but everyone else is busy with their own problems. Harper has to go to a phone store so her phone could be fixed, Po is busy with basketball practice, Ash is busy with a [[Wilding Scout]] meeting, and Morgan is in detention as a teacher thought he was teasing some kindergartners about endermen. The latter says that they’ll deal with the Evoker King tomorrow and warns Jodi to not go into the game alone. That warning would end up becoming a huge mistake, as she decides to do so. Putting on the [[VR goggles]], she rises from the bed that had been set up in the mineshaft. Mining out some [[dirt]] that was used to enclose the beds, she decides to leave behind a trail of seeds for the others to follow as she goes though the portal, which leads to another portal in the Nether, in which that portal leads to a [[swamp]]. Jodi finds a portal nearby that and goes through it. After four more portals, Jodi finds herself in a dark forest, soon noticing [[Illager|figures]] moving beneath the trees. One of them shoots an arrow at her chest, but she barely dodges it. The figures inch closer toward her, which resemble the [[villagers]], but with one big exception: all of them have weapons, which are aimed right at her.