<onlyinclude>As of [[Education Edition 1.7]], ''Code Connection'' is no longer needed for coding in {{el|ee}} as [[Code Connection|Code Builder]] is now [[Education Edition 1.7#Changes|built-in]] to the client. ''Code Connection'' is still needed for coding in {{BE}}.

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center;" data-description="Code Connection"
! scope="col" style="width:10%" | Version
! scope="col" | Release date
! scope="col" | Changelog
|-
|1.50
|June 12, 2018
|! style="text-align: left" |
*Code Builder is now built-in, available by pressing {{key|C}}.
**The companion app ''Code Connection'' is still compatible with Bedrock and ''Education'' editions.
* Miscellaneous bug fixes
|-
|1.41
|April 6, 2018
|
* Fixed an issue with the app that would prevent it from connecting to the game client when app is installed via the Microsoft Store for Education
|-
|1.40
|February 22, 2018
|! style="text-align: left" |
* Version number is included in bottom left corner. This number is used when contacting the Support Team.
* The back arrow was removed. To return to the development environment selection screen, please click on the ''Code Connection'' text
* Added a warning that closing the application causes ''Code Connection'' to disconnect
|-
|'''Release'''
|May 22, 2017
|! style="text-align: left" |
* [[Code Connection|'''''Code Connection for Minecraft''''']] officially released.
|-
|Beta
|May 2, 2017
|! style="text-align: left" |
* First open beta publicly available. Demo version also available at the Microsoft Store.
|}</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Education versions}}

[[Category:Versions]]

[[de:Minecraft Education/Versionen/Code Connection]]
[[es:Education Edition version history/Classroom Mode]]
[[ja:更新履歴/Minecraft Education/Code Connection]]
[[pt:Histórico de versões do Minecraft Education/Conexão de código]]
[[ru:История версий Minecraft Education/Code Connection]]
[[uk:Історія версій (Minecraft Education)/Code Connection]]
[[zh:教育版版本记录/代码连接]]