=== Chapter 15 ===

Amy stubs her toe on a bookshelf the moment she turns the first corner upstairs, hissing and closing her eyes as the pain ran up to her elbow. Tuna follows behind her, bounding up the stairs and rolling around on the carpet. Amy asks her if she smells Marc, and Tuna gives off a long, high-pitched meow, and then moves into the darkness. Amy hurries behind her, adjusting her eyes to the darkness while moving as quickly as she can so she doesn’t lose sight of her. She is eventually led by Tuna to an empty room with a wall of honey blocks, but she quickly hears pistons slamming downstairs. Amy quickly heads downstairs and rushes to the entryway, only to find it missing, making her realize that she and Tuna ran into a wall. Amy grabs a torch to see better, noticing that the stairs and the other rooms were still there, and slowly heads into the room that Tuna went in first, believing it to be a dining room thanks to a chandelier hanging overhead. Amy then notices a draft of wind in the room, making her believe that there is a secret passage. She brings her hand to the seam, tracing its path, and then holds her torch to the floor, looking for something to press. She eventually presses down on a pressure plate, and the false wall opens to a flight of stairs.

=== Chapter 16 ===

Tuna meows behind Amy as she starts heading down the stairs, and Amy gives Tuna a piece of fish to entice her to stay there. Tuna happily takes the fish as Amy continues down the stairs. Just then, Amy hears a scream, and she braces herself against the wall just as the screaming stops. With a lump in her throat, but no reason to turn away, she eventually heads down to a large chamber, with light produced by redstone lamps embedded in the walls. The screaming is heard once more as Amy notices two other passages to the left and right of her. She then blows out her torch, but as the smoke wafts into her eyes, she notices a figure skittering by thanks to its shadow, going down the passage farthest from her. Swallowing her fear, she starts to head down the  passage opposite where the figure had gone, but soon stops and puts her arms out, noticing that she is getting cramped. She heads back to the large chamber, only to notice that the staircase that she had come down was now blocked off. She then shouts to the figure to stop their antics and to face her one-on-one, but gets no response. She then marches down the other passage, but doesn’t immediately notice a trapdoor open beneath her feet, and falls through the hole.

=== Chapter 17 ===

Amy falls down into a corridor just below the passage. The corridor itself isn’t as well lit as the passage, but Amy is able to notice slimy trails leading to a pair of doors. She follows the trail toward the doors while searching the corridor for anything to climb up through the trapdoor, but has no luck. As Amy pinpoints the slimy trail belongs to a slime, she hears someone screaming for help, and quickly realizes that it is Gummo. She heads through the doors into another chamber, noticing Gummo lying in a pile of gravel and sand as slimes bounce toward him.

=== Chapter 18 ===

Amy sprints toward Gummo and grabs him by his shoulder and his beard, with the latter screaming after being grabbed by the latter, to avoid being attacked by the slimes. The two then attack the slimes with their axes as Amy heads toward a set of doors, all while her foot is plunged inside a slime. Gummo then yanks Amy from the grip of the slime, and the two go through the doors, closing them quickly. Gummo slides down a wall with a sigh of relief from avoiding the slimes, saying that he was attacked from behind by Marjorie and the next thing he knew, he woke up down where the slimes were, much to Amy’s shock. Amy wants to believe that Marc didn’t fall for her lies, and Gummo believes that he did fall for them, adding that he thinks that Marc might be dead already thanks to Marjorie.

=== Chapter 19 ===

Gummo reiterates to Amy that she shouldn’t act rashly when there is no guarantee that she can find Marc, adding that she should think rationally by heading back to Amy’s parents, talking to them about the situation, and then heading back here to plan out the next steps. Amy lashes out at Gummo for his suggestions, but soon gives in and suggests for Gummo to leave and get help. Gummo begins to suggest something else, but he inadvertently steps on a pressure plate while pacing the room, causing a stone wall to go up between them. Gummo throws his wooden axe to Amy just before the wall closes in between them. Amy then suggests that she mine out the stone blocks, but Gummo says that he believe he found a way around before moving on. Amy then heads down a lit path to an intersection, which looked the same as the previous one: stone walls with the pathways seemingly endless. Amy begins to believe that Marjorie may have set up Glory’s Haven as a trap, and mutters to herself that she hopes that Marc is in one piece when she finds him. Amy then heads down the pathway to her right, being careful not to step on any pressure plates. She begins to wonder why the hallway smells like she is near water as the walls begin to feel more jagged to the touch. Amy eventually ends up in a giant chamber that appears to have no ceiling, with screeching coming from bats from above. Her thoughts are interrupted by a scream, and Amy gasps as she realizes that the scream is coming from Marc.

=== Chapter 20 ===

Amy calls out for Marc about every one hundred feet she takes through the passage, which has tunnels that twist, sudden drop-offs everywhere, and the walls were covered in lush vines with glow berries, being a lush cave. Amy eventually stops walking and closes her eyes as she takes a deep breath, remember other things she learned about lush caves, like axolotls and numerous plants. After realizing that an area with fewer glow berries might be where Marc is, Amy eventually finds a patch with a small amount of glow berries and heads through a tunnel, but stops when she hears scratching nearby. Finding the source of the scratching to be in a water source, she reaches in and grabs something furry, gently pulling it toward her and letting it break the surface. Amy is surprised that the furry object is Tuna, her pet cat.

=== Chapter 21 ===

Amy paces back and forth, wondering as to how Tuna got here while Tuna cleans herself up. Tuna then walks on, meowing at Amy to follow her, soon finding a moss wall that is not completely solid. Amy pushed against the moss, making it break apart to reveal an opening to crawl through. She and Tuna then head through the opening.

[[Category:Minecraft: House of Horrors chapters]]