<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: Mob Squad: Don't Fear the Creeper}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 25: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he carries Mal into the cave, and is soon followed by Jarro, Tok, and Lenna. Lenna warns the others to get deeper into the cave as the wither is now immune to arrows, meaning that they have to fight the wither in the cave. Chug gives Mal to Jarro, hoping that he’ll give her some milk to drink. Just then, the wither bursts into the tunnel leading into the cave, but Chug and Tok get the upper hand and repeatedly attack it with their swords. Eventually, the wither is killed, and Tok picks up the nether star that it drops. Chug then checks on Mal, who, thankfully, is feeling better thanks to Jarro giving her milk to drink. The group then head outside to confront Creeperhead, who is described as wearing a green cape, along with black pants and a black shirt. Lenna then takes off the creeper head, revealing Creeperhead to be Krog, much to Chug’s shock. Krog wakes up and angrily says that the wither, wither skeletons, and the TNT he made would kill them, but Chug mentions that the wither was killed, the wither skeletons are afraid of wolves, and that Krog wouldn’t be able to get his hands on TNT for a while. Mal then asks Krog as to how he got out of jail, and, although reluctant at first, he states that he used a bowl to dig a hole in the floor of his jail cell, which eventually led him to the Elder’s storeroom, which contains "rare antiquities and supplies"; he took what he could and placed it in a shulker box so it would be easy to carry. Mal then asks Krog as to why he had been following them, and he says that it was payback for putting him in jail in the first place. Krog then says that he was planning to write a musical about his life, which has a song about the Mob Squad, or as he prefers to call them, the Bad Apples:

{{Q|Punish the children; the children are bad.<br>They took away everything you’ve ever had.<br>Chase them and hit them and give them a fright.<br>Set fire to their shelter while they sleep at night.<br>Punish the children for putting you here,<br>Fill them with terror and fill them with fear.}}

Mal suggests that they bring Krog back to Cornucopia, but Chug is skeptical, saying that they’ll probably just put him back in the same jail cell, and suggests that they banish Krog to the deep dark instead. Mal elbows Chug in the ribs for that suggestion, and with understanding that they can’t leave Krog to fend for himself in the elements, they ultimately decide to bring him back to Cornucopia.

=== Chapter 26: Jarro ===

Switching to Jarro’s POV, he finds a horse that Krog had hidden in a meadow, which he named Carnage, but Chug jokes that its actually name is Lil Miss Honeyfoot, much to Krog’s disgust. Soon, everyone mounts their horses, and with potions of swiftness in hand, gallop back to Cornucopia, not before stopping for a quick night’s sleep by a river. When they arrive back at Cornucopia, they are greeted by Lars and Jami next to a set of giant doors, who mention to everyone that the Elders had enacted new laws stating that no one can go in or out unless they are on a list (currently, nobody is on the list). Mal then mentions that they captured Krog, and Lars says that they would have to wait until Elder Stu unlocks the gate in the morning. Feeling defeated, Mal barks that they have other ways to get in, and everyone else except Lars and Jami follow her, but they are shocked to see that New Cornucopia is gone.

=== Chapter 27: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, she and the others are both shocked and angry that New Cornucopia is gone. Chug begins to wonder about what happened to his pet pig, Thingy, while Tok thinks that Elder Stu confiscated everything in his and Chug’s shop, and Jarro thinks that his mother now controls his business. The group head around the wall to the window that is connected to Nan’s house. Mal knocks on it, but realizing that no one will answer, she mines out two blocks of stone just out of the boundaries of Nan’s house. Inside Nan’s house, they find Livi, the daughter of Tini, on the couch, who asks as to what they are doing. Mal says that they are here to save Nan, and she heads upstairs to give her the enchanted golden apple. Nan starts eating it and feels much better, mentioning that she heard someone knocking at the window. Mal mentions that it was her, and Chug explains to Nan about New Cornucopia, in which she says that the Elders unanimously voted to end New Cornucopia and close the wall forever. Mal goes to ask Livi if she knows about this, but Livi had already ran off. Jarro then has Krog come inside and Nan has him sit in a corner, which he does. Chug then explains to Nan about their whole adventure before the door bursts open as the rest of the Elders, Tini, Livi, Lars, Jami, and Jarro’s mother, Dawna, spill inside. Nan explains to the Elders that they closed up the wall and confiscated the Mob Squad’s property so they could blame it on them for Krog escaping jail, and says that the Mob Squad just saved her life. Elder Gabe rebuttals by saying that himself and Tini took care of Nan, but Nan goes on the offense, stating that she is taking Elder Gabe’s place as  the Eldest Elder. Elder Gabe then smiles and says that the town charter had been updated, with the Elders unanimously agreeing that only the current Elders would be able to vote in a new Elder, and that "children must remain with their parents until they are deemed old enough and responsible enough by a committee of Elders". Dawna attempts to bring Jarro home, but Elder Gabe is shocked when he notices Krog behind Jarro, and Tok mentions that Krog had escaped, as everyone else whispers about it. Elder Stu then goes on the defensive and says that Krog will be punished for his actions, but Lenna questions this.

Lenna then states to the Elders that they are being questioned because they need to be questioned, that they lie to their children about the real world, lock everyone who should be allowed to roam as they please, pick and choose rules to keep themselves in power, and are now trying to turn rules into laws so they can be forced to stay and live life based on their terms. Lenna then faces the crowd of people that had gathered, saying that the wall is a lie, that no one can stop them from breaking it, and that the Elders controlling them is an illusion. She then asks the crowd if they want to found their own town.

=== Chapter 28: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she notices the crowd stand in silence. Elder Gabe then shouts that he forbids people from leaving Cornucopia, but Nan already has a plan, stating that she’ll come along. She takes Elder Gabe’s walking stick and motions for him and Elder Stu to back up, which they do. Everyone else soon leaves, with Nan giving Dawna Krog, much to her disgust. Only Nan, Mal, Lenna, and Jarro remain in the cottage. Just then, Chug and Tok burst through the door, with Chug holding up three piglets in his arms to his own delight. He soon brings the piglets out to where the horses, Thingy, and Miss Pig, are in a fenced area. Everyone then sleeps in Nan’s cottage for the night, knowing that they’ll be leaving Cornucopia tomorrow.

=== Epilogue: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he mentions to the reader that he and everyone else (Chug, Jarro, Mal, Lenna, and Nan) left early the next morning, soon arriving at the shore next to the mushroom island, and name the area "Discovery", with parks, museums, and even a stage for music and theatrical productions already being built. Signs are put up outside of Cornucopia and by the village next to it pointing toward Discovery, and the group find a village in the mountains nearby. Nan says that she hopes to see a bear one day. Some people from Cornucopia sneak out to check out Discovery, mentioning that the Elders of Cornucopia have cracked down on their laws; Elder Stu is now the only person who can craft things, but at least Krog’s jail cell is now lined with obsidian, and the Elders check it every day so nothing suspicious happens. Nonetheless, the founders of Discovery are ready for the brigands from the Nether if they decide to come back. Nan has a rocking chair on her front porch and in her backyard looking out at the ocean, Mal has a small cow farm and a mine, Chug and Tok have their store, and Lenna is their town historian, spending days in the library and reading about the Founders of Cornucopia, while also adding her own lore. Tok then says to the reader that they are descended from adventurers like Nan said to them long ago, and that each of them possess the spirit of discovery, knowing that life is better beyond a wall.

=== Epilogue 2: Discovery Boogaloo: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he mentions to the reader that they found a place they needed to be, and states that their story has come to an end. He also mentions that he, Mal, and Tok go back to Cornucopia sometimes to check on their parents, but a few people from there have come over to live in Discovery permanently, saying that they were tired of Cornucopia’s rules. Inka already lives here with her melon farm, and Chug’s mother is considering selling her farm to one of his uncles so she can live here, with Tok promising Chug’s dad that he would give him as many garden hoes as he pleases for pumpkin pies. Chug then asks the reader about buying a pet pig (and the long adoption review) and says that Jarro is next door, saying to the reader that they should tell him that they are having salmon for dinner tonight.

=== Epilogue 3: The Final Frontier: Jarro ===

Switching to Jarro’s POV, he mentions to the reader about the two pet pigs, and says that he feels great, although is worried about the brigands from the Nether. Nonetheless, he feels like he is at peace and beginning to believe in himself, summing his life as being together with his friends to build a future they can be proud of.