<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles/Night of the Bats!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 7: Mobs! Mobs! Mobs! and Things Had Been Going So Well Until Now… ===

Morgan insists that the group head back to the houses in the village. Upon realizing that there would be no way to get back unscathed, the group decides to attack the horde of hostile mobs. Morgan goes after a zombie with his sword, eventually killing it. Jodi comes to his aid and attacks another zombie. Ash ends up killing a skeleton. Just then, Morgan hears a creeper nearby and orders everyone to get back just as the creeper explodes, killing the remaining zombies. Although everyone feels triumphant, Po warns of more hostile mobs descending the mountain, so they all decide to take shelter in the village. Eventually, they find a door open to a house, so they quickly head inside and slam the door shut. Morgan soon notices that they are in a library with rows upon rows of books. Ash then notices an enchanting table in the back corner. Everyone realizes that they could use it to make powerful weapons and armor, but of course, they don’t have the necessary materials yet. Morgan soon notices a white-clad villager watching the group from across the library, but with bright-orange hair and a long nose. The villager tosses Morgan some food to eat. After checking his health, Morgan decides to eat some of it; entirely, it consisted of four cakes, two bread, two raw fish, two carrots, and two melons.

=== Chapter 8: It Takes a Village to Raise a Child! It Takes a Mob to Raze a Village! ===

As the sun rises, the group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) leave the village and quickly return to their cave, falling asleep in their beds to get back into the real world before heading home for the night. The next day at school, everyone meets up in homeroom, with Morgan mentioning to Jodi that they need to do something about the hostile mobs that had them trapped in the village, referring to them as pests. Ms. Minerva overhears this and says that she was informed by the school board that the bats would be exterminated over the weekend. Although everyone else protests this decision (with Ms. Minerva feeling sympathetic and wishing there was another solution), Ms. Minerva says that they can’t continue to live in the gym. Back in Minecraft, Ash insists on everyone grabbing their beds and using them near the village. Jodi ask as to why they should head back, and Harper says that she plans on using the enchantment table there; she also plans on making armor and weapons if more iron can be found. Ash gets right to work, with Morgan saying to her not to throw anything out as the cobblestone and dirt collected can be used as walls. Po also suggests that trenches should be made to collect more dirt for the walls.

Harper soon has armor crafted for everyone, but Morgan politely refuses to wear it, saying that he has an idea to use if Harper agrees to it. Morgan heads out to a nearby pumpkin patch, picks one from the ground with his axe, and then dashed back to Harper. She quickly realizes his plan and places down four blocks of iron in a T-shape. Morgan then places the pumpkin on top, spawning an iron golem. The group and the iron golem then line up in a row at the foot of the mountain as the sun begins to set. Just then, a horde of zombies crest the mountaintop, scouring down toward the village. The iron golem makes its move first, attacking some zombies by swinging its arms. The entire group then attacks the rest of the hostile mobs throughout the night. By the next morning, everyone had felt relieved, but the village was almost completely destroyed. Ash soon realizes that the mobs had trampled the crops, which is something that used to be so in older versions. Harper realizes that the villagers are out-of-date, and Morgan begins to realize that the game might be modded. Harper then gets to work on making more things with iron.

=== Chapter 9: The Giant Bulldozers in the Park Are Lovely This Time of Year. ===

Back in the real world, the group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) decide to head over to a nearby park before heading home. At first, Ash thinks the park will have a big field of grass with a small pond and flowers of every color, but is shocked to see a bulldozer and a crane, noticing that construction was taking place. A large section of trees had already been cleared from a densely wooded area. An old man speaks to them, saying that he comes to the park every night to watch the bats fly off into the night to find dinner, and feels angry about the condominiums that are being built there. Just then, Harper realizes as to what happened: because the bats' habitat was destroyed, they decided to take shelter in the school instead. Jodi then says that they could explain to the construction workers about it, but Po quickly realizes that it was already too late anyway.

=== Chapter 10: A Problem Is Just a Solution You Haven’t Found Yet. ===

The next day, Po arrives at school early. He explains to Ms. Minerva about the bat situation, but she says that the exterminator will be here tomorrow no matter what, and that nothing can be done to stop it. Back in Minecraft, Po, under a construction worker skin once again, is mad that they can’t do anything about the bat situation, but Harper begins to realize that the bat situation in real life and the hostile mob situation in Minecraft might be connected. Ash remembers from earlier in the week when they hid out in the library, and that the hostile mobs just went through town to the woods on the other side, as if they were relocating. Knowing this, everyone decides to help the hostile mobs instead.

=== Chapter 11: Move Along, Zombies—Nothing to See Here! ===

Harper and company start to build a bridge over the village from the peak of one mountain to the other. They also start digging a tunnel underneath from the foot of the mountain and into the woods just beyond the village, followed by a trench for any stray ones that ignored either the bridge or tunnel.

=== Chapter 12: Bats, Part Three: They Don’t Have to Go Home, But They Can’t Stay Here. ===

Back in the real world, Ash is happy at Harper for the plan working perfectly; not a single mob had entered the village. Morgan points out that the sun is setting, and Jodi mentions that Ash’s Wilding Scout troop is meeting in the gym soon; she begins to wonder if they’ll be allowed at the meeting. Ash says that she’ll explain everything to her troop leader, while the others get in contact with their parents about the situation. Morgan also says that they should get permission from a teacher, so Po decides to ask Ms. Minerva. Later, Ash and company are in the gym. She explains to the Wilding Scout troop that the school had been overrun by bats who end up taking shelter in the rafters of the gymnasium. Ash feels hopeful that the troop can fill whatever openings they can find in the gym so the bats won’t be able to return there by tomorrow morning. One of the scouts ask as to what will happen with the bats, and Ash says to leave that up to her and her friends.

=== Chapter 13: Bats, Part Four: We Miss Them Already. Don’t Forget to Write. ===

It was Saturday. Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash were all at school, ready for the exterminator to arrive. As the exterminator drives up in a van adorned with creatures covered with red slashes, Ms. Minerva comes out of the school building and informs the exterminator that there is no more situation with the bats. Grumbling in frustration, the exterminator drives off. Just then, Doc Culpepper bursts through the doors, showing off a crooning fork that she had made that could be used to ward off the bats, but Ms. Minerva informs her that the situation was already taken care of. Ash then has the others follow her toward a wooden shed at the end of the school lawn, dubbed as "the bat house". Ash explains to Doc that it was made the night before using some stuff from her treehouse. Although feeling a little deflated, Ash knows that it was for a good cause, and that it can be replaced.

=== Chapter 14: A New Day Dawns! An Unknown Danger Looms… ===

Back in Minecraft, the five (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) work to get back on their feet as quickly as possible. Morgan focuses on digging out the mountain, while Jodi cuts down trees, finds apples, and uses bonemeal on some crops in the village. Po, now with a mail carrier skin, is given any extra materials that Morgan or Jodi don’t need, delivering them to Ash. Ash herself trades the materials with the villagers, soon finding some lapis lazuli and giving it to Harper, who is eager to use it on the enchanting table in the library, but also notices that the villager that would normally be there hadn’t been seen all day. Finally, after a few in-game days, Ash feels confident that everyone is finally ready to move on from the village. Harper shows off an enchanted fishing rod, while Morgan appears to be lost in thought. Ash asks Morgan as to what is wrong, and he says that he realizes the mobs, just like the bats, were fleeing from their habitat for somewhere else. The others begin to realize that the monsters were running away from something, and soon begin to set off on a new adventure.