{{Lost premium version}}
{{Infobox version
| image = MinecraftEdu 1.6.4 Build 8.png
| edition = MinecraftEdu
| type = Development Build
| date = January 23, 2014
| downloads = [https://archive.org/download/minecraftedu-mod-versions/1.6/1.6.4_build-8_classroom-20140123.jar Classroom]
| prevparent = 1.6.4 Build 1
| prev = 1.6.4 Build 7
| next = 1.6.4 Build 9
| nextparent = 1.7.10 Build 1
}}

'''1.6.4 Build 8'''<ref>{{citation|url=https://twitter.com/Tonsse/status/435715429361672192|title=New development build!|website=Twitter|date=February 18, 2014}}</ref><ref>[[MinecraftEdu 1.6.4 Build 8#logs|IRC logs]]: "<''@Tonsse> (to @kulttuuri) 1.6.4 build 8 development released yesterday!'' (February 18, 2014)</ref> is the eighth build for {{El|MinecraftEdu}} 1.6.4, released on January 23, 2014. It is based on [[Java Edition 1.6.4]]. This is the first build in 2014.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
* Worlds are downloaded directly from [https://minecraftedu.com/worlds World Library] site.
* Launcher doesn't close when you run something from it. Instead it minimizes.
* Option to set "Message of the Day" from the Server windows' "World information" tab.
* Added setting to always show xp bar (no matter what gamemode is selected). <code>always-show-xpbar=true/false</code> to <code>EduWorldSettings.ini</code>
* Spanish translations.
* Dutch translations.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
* Online Worlds and Local Worlds merged to one World Library.
* Renamed Servertool to Server Launcher.
* World Template creation removed from servertool. World Templates are now created at [https://minecraftedu.com/worlds World Library].
* Moved welcome message option to "World Information" tab in server window.
* Build crosshairs improved.

== Fixes ==
'''3 bugs fixed'''
* Launcher component hiding not working.
* Launcher spamming "you have files in your mods folder".
* Translations not working in client and server.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Edu versions}}