[[Category:Minecraft: Ironsword Academy/HotCold chapters]]

=== Chapter 8: When Riding a Lazy Lava River, Make Sure to Bring Your Floaties. ===

Eek then asks Morgan if Harper is alright, and he says that she might be having a bad day because of the changes to the air conditioning. Swapping voice channels, Morgan then asks Eek if he can still hear him, and he says that he can. The two then discuss about their favorite things to build, with Eek saying that he doesn’t really have a favorite as he wants to build everything. Morgan questions this, knowing that Eek didn’t want to build anything a few days ago, and Eek says that he doesn’t build what he wants, but exactly how he remembers it. Morgan concurs, knowing he also wants to do things the right way, but he uses blueprints for stuff that other players have shared online, Po adds that he likes to build stuff that makes him feel like he is part of a story, and Ash says that she likes builds that fit into nature. Eek then asks the group as to how they know to build something if they have never seen it before, and Jodi says that they just make it up, because in Minecraft, people can build whatever they want. Morgan then swaps over to another voice channel to give Eek a pep talk, saying to him that it is okay if he copies builds that he has seen before as long as you admit that you didn’t make it yourself. After a brief discussion about building, the group arrive at the Nether fortress and prepare to fight some blazes.

=== Chapter 9: Okay, Now You Need a Cold Drink. Hopefully with a Little Umbrella! ===

Harper and Theo decide to take their time getting to the principals office this time around, conserving as much energy as they could as the vents continued to blaze hot air. The other students that were still here had to change into gym clothes and look for small fans in their lockers to keep themselves cool. As Harper and Theo arrive at Principal Ferris’ office, Principal Ferris asks the two as to what could be wrong with the heat, saying that it is healthy and relaxing, making the students drink more water, and reminds him of his childhood, as the other side of his house was above a pizza parlor that belonged to his other grandparents; his favorite was cheese pizza. Harper practically begs for the password, but Principal Ferris dismisses her concern, adding that students at Ironsword should be prepared for everything. Harper attempts to lash out, but Theo tugs her out the door quickly to avoid a confrontation as they bump into Will, who also admits that he was attempting to get Principal Ferris to fix the heat as well, noting the concerns made by the basketball team and the members of the school choir. Will then says that he can help with the administrator password, and Harper has him come to the computer lab. There, Doc opens a program on her computer that is connected to the school’s air-conditioning and heating systems. Will then says to Harper and Theo that the password is "vani11acheese", referencing Principal Ferris’ two favorite foods with two 1’s instead of the letter L. After entering it, Theo clicks on the dial to drag the temperature down to normal, making the vent turn off, but it turns on again by itself and the dial goes back to where it was before. With the computers starting to lag from the heat, Theo and Harper quickly open the window to let some cool air in, while Morgan turns on the overhead fan, and Doc takes out some desktop fans for Jodi and Po to point to their computers and the server. As Jodi and Po prepare to head to the fortress, Harper hopes to think of a way to turn off the heat.

=== Chapter 10: The Secret of This Story Is <nowiki>*@!^thexzmcnbv#$blazeslweskdj;o.</nowiki> {{sic}} Uh-Oh! The Chapter Title Is Glitching, Too! ===

Po’s heart was beating fast as the group arrive at the Nether fortress, knowing that they wouldn’t be able to get back there if their characters had died. Morgan carefully goes over details, informing Jodi to use her shield, Ash and Po to shoot arrows at enemies, and Eek to place torches. As they make their way through the fortress, Eek begins to overheat, and the game starts to lag again. The group eventually attack some blazes and head to the spawner, but Eek begins to glitch out as the computer room gets hotter and hotter. Just then, Principal Ferris slams the door open, bellowing at someone to fix the air conditioning right now.

=== Chapter 11: AC Inspector Here. No, I Don’t Handle B. I Don’t Know about D Through Z, Either. Just A and C for Me! ===

That someone was Doc, who was standing in a closet and holding several wires. Principal Ferris blames her for the server causing the problems with the air conditioning, but Doc attempts to explains that there is a problem with the program that is controlling the temperature. Harper then slips that she used the administrator password, causing Will to admit that he gave it to them. As Principal Ferris orders for Will to go to his office, the entire Minecraft server freezes in the heat. Principal Ferris considers shutting down the server to fix the problem, walking toward the wires in the closet. Harper feels like it is too late, but Eek begins talking to her, saying that it is not her fault, that every person is unique, and that she is doing a good job. With her renewed optimism, Harper cries out to Principal Ferris that she’ll find out what is causing the problem as it just started today. Doc concurs, suggesting that herself and him take a short walk outside to give them a chance to fix it, and Principal Ferris decides to go with her. Harper then points out that yesterday, the group were in a snowy village, theorizing that Eek could be connected to the school’s temperature system. She then asks him if he has anything in his inventory that could cool him off, and Ash quips that he has snowballs. Eek then shuffles through his inventory and starts holding up the snowballs, making the temperature go down by a few degrees. Harper then suggests to the group to kill off the blazes, destroy the spawner, and cool down the Nether fortress, and Po replies in agreement.

=== Chapter 12: Computer’s Ill? You Need a Chill? Goodness Gracious, Great Balls of Snow! ===

The group defend themselves from the remaining blazes, but Jodi’s game crashes as she holds up her shield to defend herself from the blaze’s fireballs. Po kills off a few blazes, but his game soon crashes as well. Ash prepares to go after the blazes alone, suggesting to Harper for any ideas, and she suggests to Eek to throw the snowballs at the blazes. He eventually does so, and the server begins to cool down. As the last blaze is killed, Ash places torches around the spawner to prevent more blazes from spawning. She and Eek then follow the torches back to newly-built Nether portal and head through it.

=== Chapter 13: From Now On, Can We Keep Eek on the Beach and Feel the Breeze All the Time? ===

As cool air flows from the vents once more, the group are realized that the issues with the air conditioning are fixed. Jodi and Po reset their computers and log into Minecraft once more, stepping through the nether portal, appearing back in the snowy village. Harper informs Eek not to move until he is disconnected from the school’s air conditioning, and he complies. Morgan then says to the rest that they would need to get back in there and farm as many blaze rods as they could before they have to leave for the day. Ash, Po, and Jodi leave Eek in his ring of torches so they can head back to the Nether, picking up the other torches and letting the blaze spawner do its work. Harper and Theo then discuss about what happened, believing the player that logged into the server the other night was none other than Principal Ferris, but decide to ask Will about it tomorrow. Doc then disconnects the server from accessing the temperature controls, and Theo believes that he might be able to find a way out for Eek.

=== Epilogue: Anyone Else Craving Chocolate Pepperoni Right Now? (To Be Honest, My Favorite Is Rocky Road Anchovies.) ===

As the group leave for the day, Eek is once again alone, but he is no longer bored thanks to his snowy wolf. He then decides to build some things that would be considered "wrong", such as building a villager house with an upside-down roof, or making a giant farmland spiral with each curve being a different crop to form a color pattern. Eventually, Eek makes a statue of his snowy wolf from netherrack, diorite, and nether brick. As he finishes it, he bumps into the avatar from the other night, who had watched him build it. The avatar then says that it looks cool but also feels scary, and Eek believes the voice of the avatar is from a human. He thanks the avatar politely, and the avatar, now described as wearing a full suit of medieval armor, suggests to Eek that they could all be friends as he gives some meat to Eek’s snowy wolf.