<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Mob Squad: Never Say Nether}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 1: Chug ===

Chug mentions to the reader about the town he lives in, named Cornucopia, as well as the story of how he and his group of friends went on an adventure to save the town from several illagers. He then stops mid-sentence, saying that it was all in the past, and the past, to him, "is boring", so he instead mentions about how he and his brother Tok, live in the area known as New Cornucopia, just outside of Cornucopia. The two run a shop known as the Stack Shack. Chug jokingly mentions to the reader that he wanted to call it "ChugTokMart", but Tok said that the name sounded like Chug choking on an apple. Getting back on track, Chug mentions as to how Tok is always up before him, with Tok saying that the early morning hours help him concentrate as he imagines new recipes for tools, as well as attempting to master potion making. One day, Chug is curled up in bed when he hears a loud boom at Tok’s workshop. He runs over to it, albeit relieved that Tok was working in his yard instead of inside his workshop. Chug then asks Tok if he used gunpowder. Tok says that he did, saying that he is getting closer to finding out a potion recipe. Chug then says to the reader that Tok doesn’t know any potion recipes, and that Elder Gabe, the only person in Cornucopia who can make potions, refuses to tell Tok anything. Tok seems frustrated, wishing that he could be able to head back to the woodland mansion to find a book on potions, but Chug reminds him that they aren’t allowed to do so per the Elder’s orders. Tok then says that he hopes to "get permission to go on an expedition", and also says that Lenna is compiling a library of books. Just then, Lenna and Mal show up, wondering about the explosion. Tok then explains to the two that he is attempting to make a potion that will make someone resistant to fire. Mal wonders if fire is a big problem in Cornucopia, and Tok has a flashback to when he accidentally set his workshop on fire. Mal then says that she is up for an expedition, and everyone else agrees, with Lenna just as excited, hoping to get permission from Nan to head back to the woodland mansion; Lenna also gives cookies to everyone as the four (Chug, Tok, Mal, and Lenna) head back into Cornucopia toward "the Hub".

Just then, Lenna is hit in the back of the head with something, making Chug and Mal draw their weapons. Tok picks up a poisonous potato that landed at Lenna’s feet, and the group see Jarro, Remy, and Edd disappearing around the corner. Lenna is surprised that despite having saved them, that they are still bullying her. Nonetheless, the group head over to Nan’s cottage at the edge of Cornucopia. As Nan greets the four, she also wonders as to why they are here. Mal says that they would like to go on an expedition to the woodland mansion that they had discovered; Tok adds that Lenna could help find books for the town library that Nan is building. Nan hesitates, but politely rejects the request, knowing that the Elders unanimously decided to restrict travel, but she plans to send them a letter in the hope that they’ll change their mind. Chug argues that he and his friends know the way to the woodland mansion, but Nan says that the expedition at the time was done as a last resort as the town was obviously in danger. The four soon head back to their homes for dinner, with Chug and Tok heading off to sleep in identical beds soon after. Chug hopes that he’ll be able to make Tok his favorite breakfast tomorrow to cheer him up, but by the next morning, Chug notices Tok’s cats, Clarity and Candor, softly crying outside, soon realizing that Tok is gone.

=== Chapter 2: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she mentions to the reader about herself living on her parents' cow farm and working in the mine. Understanding that she nearly died the last time that she had went on an adventure, she knows that her parents want to keep her safe, but still wonders as to what could be out there beyond Cornucopia and New Cornucopia. On this particular morning, Mal is milking one of the cows, named Henrietta, when Chug bursts into the barn and says that Tok is gone. Mal wonders if he went into town to look for ingredients, but Chug mentions that none of the shops at the Hub are open yet. Mal then wonders if he had gone to visit Nan to check her library for something that had been missed, and the two decide to head there. Heading toward the Hub, the two notice several people standing in the street, looking confused and angry. Elder Gabe explains to everyone that someone broke into his shop and stole everything and soon thinks that Tok had been the culprit, knowing that he constantly begs him for potion recipes. Chug and Mal interject and proclaim that Tok is innocent just as Dawna bursts out from her gate, wearing nothing but a bathrobe and curlers. She exclaims that her sweet berry bushes are gone, as well as her son, Jarro. Upon realizing that Tok is also missing, Dawna immediately thinks that the "Bad Apples" (referring to Lenna, Mal, and Chug) are the culprits, but Elder Stu interjects and says that everyone will help find them, asking for everyone to search for the two across every house in Cornucopia. Mal, Lenna, and Chug then head out to New Cornucopia, with the latter wondering if Jarro had kidnapped Tok. Mal says that Jarro would be pretty stupid to do that as the three head over to Chug and Tok’s workshop. Mal then asks Chug if Thingy (his pet pig) squealed and if Clarity and Candor had meowed. Chug denies that he heard them, saying that he "sleeps pretty hard".

Lenna ends up finding some carrots and fish bones nearby, making her realize that whoever took Tok had kept Thingy, Clarity, and Candor distracted. Chug then breaks down and says that it was his fault for sleeping through it all, even going as far as to say that he and his friends were responsible for opening the gates of Cornucopia, which makes him realize that anyone could’ve taken Tok. Lenna and Mal reiterate that its not Chug’s fault that this happened, saying that he wouldn’t have known about it anyway. Mal then says that it’ll be up to them to find Tok, just like how it was up to them to save their town, and so everyone gets prepared. Chug puts on his diamond and gold armor from last time, while Mal and Lenna stock up on food. Chug then asks Lenna if Poppy is able to sniff out things. Lenna then asks Poppy to find whoever touched the carrot last, but Poppy heads right toward her. Chug then notices Thingy eating something off of the ground, with Lenna soon realizing that they are sweet berries. The three quickly realize that Thingy is following a trail of sweet berries that were stolen from Dawna’s farm.

=== Chapter 3: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, she, Mal, and Chug are barely able to keep up as Thingy goes after the sweet berries. Chug eventually does get a lead on Thingy to keep it at bay. Lenna then mentions to the reader about how she had gone from being considered as "weird, annoying, and useless" by her family, to being Nan’s apprentice and studying under her. Back to reality, Lenna notices thunder looming overhead and asks if a shelter can be built, seeing that they are in a grassy area with no trees or buildings in sight, but Chug objects, saying that they might lose the trail of sweet berries. Just then, the rain starts, hesitantly at first, but soon becomes a downpour, followed by lightning strikes, which soon reveal four skeleton horsemen nearby. The horsemen are killed with relative ease, and the three take shelter underground from the rain not long after. Chug puts up a torch, lighting up the small area, but soon realizes that he left Thingy outside. Lenna also mentions that she left Poppy outside as well. Mal says that they will be find as she says that hostile mobs don’t care about animals. Chug then wonders if whoever kidnapped Tok would eat Thingy; he feels like he is about to break the ceiling of the small area with his fists, but Mal gently brings him down to a sitting position. Lenna then offers the two cookies that she had made, with Chug complementing that they taste just like how Nan used to make them. Some time later, the three head back out above the surface, with the rain long gone. Just then, Thingy and Poppy show up, with Poppy bounding away toward a small hill nearby. Lenna then notices someone attached to a tree with a lead, thinking that it might be Tok, and the three rush toward the figure. Lenna’s heart sinks when the figure turns out to be Jarro.

=== Chapter 4: Jarro ===

Switching to Jarro’s POV, he notices Mal, Lenna, and Chug running toward him. He asks for them to help him, and Mal sheepishly obliges by untying him from the tree. Jarro mentions to the group that he was blindfolded and gagged alongside Tok. After some discussion with the group regarding getting home, Lenna realizes that they can’t bring Jarro back, as he would probably just tell the Elders about what happened, which would mean that the Elders wouldn’t allow Mal and her friends to leave, so they decide to bring Jarro along instead. Jarro agrees on the condition that he is given a weapon and is taught on how to fight, and Mal accepts the offer.

=== Chapter 5: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he mentions to the reader that he was blindfolded and gagged, and asks as to who is dragging him around, what they want from him, and what are they going to do to him after he gives them the info they need.

=== Chapter 6: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he mentions that today is the worst day of his life, from Tok disappearing to now being stuck with Jarro. The group (Mal, Lenna, Jarro, Chug, Thingy, and Poppy) continue heading in the direction of Thingy as it continues to gulp down every sweet berry it finds. Jarro and Chug then get into a light tussle which is quickly resolved by Mal. Lenna then introduces Poppy to Jarro, who carefully pets it. Mal then teaches Jarro on how to do a magic trick involving their inventory. The group continue along the sweet berry trail until it comes to a stop, making Chug worried that they might not be able to find Tok. Just then, Poppy sniffs out an iron ingot nearby, along with the hoof-prints of a llama. Chug soon realizes that Tok had dropped the sweet berries and the iron ingot on purpose as a means of being able to find him. Jarro then explains as to how he was kidnapped, saying that he heard a noise out in the sweet berry field and went to investigate it. Jarro then noticed "a bunch of adults—strangers in armor with weapons" that had already tied up Tok and were plucking berries from the farm and placing them in chests. Jarro then says that he attempted to stop them, but he too was blindfolded and gagged after the strangers drew their swords, described as being "dirty and chipped and stained". Jarro begins to break down and cry, thinking that it was all his fault. Chug then reaches into his pocket and pulls out an axe.

=== Chapter 7: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she is surprised to see Chug giving his axe to Jarro, who thanks Chug for the gesture. As the group continue along the trail of llama hoof-prints and cut grass, Mal begins to realize that the path they are going on is the same as the last time they ventured outside Cornucopia, heading towards the village with the beacon, and eventually possibly back to the same woodland mansion. Mal then explains to the reader about Krog and what happened with him after he was found to be aiding the evokers (putting him in jail, no less). Nonetheless, Mal also wonders as to why the adult strangers ended up taking Tok in the first place, as if they needed him because of his skills. Eventually, the group stops and decides to rest; Mal begins building a shelter underground, Chug wanders off to find some sheep and chickens for food, Jarro starts swinging his axe at a nearby tree, and Lenna is writing in her book. Eventually, Jarro crafts a crafting table, and Mal places it in the shelter. As she finishes tidying it up, she hears someone screaming outside. With her diamond pickaxe in hand, Mal notices Jarro next to a creeper, which is about to explode.

=== Chapter 8: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, she notices Mal hitting the creeper with her diamond pickaxe just before it explodes, launching her and Jarro backward. Chug and Lenna check on the two, with Mal not being able to physically move due to her being in close proximity to the creeper blast. Lenna and Chug help Jarro and Mal, respectively, to the underground shelter. As Chug crafts a bed for Mal, Lenna turns the chicken in the furnace so it can be cooked properly. Jarro heads back outside in a huff as Lenna follows close behind, saying to him that he shouldn’t be outside after dark as numerous hostile mobs spawn, and also asks him if he feels confident with an axe. Jarro says that he feels confident when using an axe to chop down wood, but not really so when he’s up against a hostile mob. Lenna then says to him that now that he had experienced being attacked by one, that’ll he’ll respond differently next time. She also mentions to Jarro about using her bow and arrow for long-range fights, being her speciality and all, mentioning to Jarro that he doesn’t know his own yet. Lenna also mentions to him that creepers are scared of cats. Jarro wonders as to why that is, and Lenna hands him the Mobestiary that she had borrowed from Nan to learn more about mobs in general, as well as some cooked chicken to eat. Jarro wolfs the chicken down before ducking for cover in the underground shelter as Chug appears, who asks Lenna as to what she and Jarro were talking about. After some discussion, Chug crafts a door and places it at the entrance to the shelter. He then makes a small pit for Thingy and tosses it some carrots before retreating inside the shelter. Jarro is reading the Mobestiary in a far corner, reading just underneath a torch. Lenna begins to write down in her journal about everything that had happened today, but soon falls asleep. However, everyone is awoken by a moaning sound in the wee hours.