<noinclude>{{fiction|third|chapter|Minecraft: Castle Redstone}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 15 ===

The three (Sir Rajah, Pal, and Faith) soon find a village and trade some of their belongings for food. Afterward, they build a shelter, as they do every night, as they continue toward Castle Redstone. Along the way, Sir Rajah tells a story about how his father, Lord Maharajah, had taken down a group of illagers. Eventually, the three make it to a forest, and soon find some abandoned buildings along with some broken redstone circuits, making them optimistic that they are getting closer to Castle Redstone. The three decide to stop to eat, with Faith complementing Sir Rajah on his cooking skills. Sir Rajah says that he learned from a servant named Cook, who had a book of recipes. Cook wanted to have him learn about brewing potions, but his father forbade him, saying that he didn’t want Sir Rajah to become a cook, and Cook soon left as a result. As Sir Rajah then walks off to find something to eat, some bushes shake nearby, soon revealing a wolf, growling its teeth at Pal and Faith. Sir Rajah soon returns and picks up a bone nearby, giving it to the wolf. The wolf becomes tame and begins to play around with Sir Rajah, much to his own delight.

=== Chapter 16 ===

The three soon leave the forest and make it to the swamp, with the wolf following close behind. They considering moving to drier land, but the wolf wants the three to follow it instead. They eventually decide to do so, soon taking shelter underneath a tree. After eating some beetroot soup, Pal goes for a walk and stumbles upon a witch hut. Faith and Sir Rajah soon show up and insist on leaving, but Pal refuses and heads inside the hut. It isn’t long before the witch returns to the hut and throws a splash potion of poison at Pal, who soon passes out from inhaling the potion’s fumes.

=== Chapter 17 ===

The three (Sir Rajah, Pal, and Faith) end up trapped in cages inside the witch hut. Sir Rajah and Pal get into a brief argument about working together, which eventually involves Pal crashing his cage into Sir Rajah’s, which bounces off the shelves and causes some bottles and containers to fall and break on the floor of the hut, as well as covering Sir Rajah’s cape in a fine dust. Just then, Sir Rajah notices that the fine dust tastes like blaze powder, so he breaks a nether wart and drops it into the cauldron below him, followed by brushing off the blaze powder from his cape, making the clear water inside the cauldron turn into a deep purple. Faith thinks that the potion is poison, but Sir Rajah seems to want to take the risk and have a taste of it. Eventually, with Pal’s help, Sir Rajah is able to grab the ladle to the cauldron just as the witch reenters its hut. Sir Rajah pours all that he can into his mouth, and soon feels like he is much stronger. He kicks out the cage door with such force that it breaks the window of hut and lands far away, followed by lifting the cauldron above his head before splatting it down on the witch, presumably killing it. Sir Rajah then breaks open the cages that Pal and Faith are in, and the three escape the witch hut with whatever they can grab just as the witch takes the cauldron off its body and wails a hideous cry. The witch soon attempts to attack Pal and Faith, but it is attacked by the wolf and is soon killed, much to Sir Rajah’s delight. He decides to name the wolf "Good Boy", much to the wolf’s delight, and the group continue through the swamp.

=== Chapter 18 ===

The four (Sir Rajah, Pal, Faith, and the wolf, Good Boy) soon arrive at Mahar Town as ominous storm clouds begin to form overhead. Sir Rajah soon notices a statue of his father, Lord Marahajah, at the center of town, realizing that the full name of it is "Maharajah Town". Just then, lighting strikes a villager, turning it into a witch. This makes the rest of the villagers attack the witch and cause it to retreat to the swamp. The four then head inside a man’s house, which is adorned with an armor stand, a display area for a sword, a crossbow with a quiver of arrows set by the door, and a painting of a warrior. The owner of the house reveals himself to be named Harry, much to Sir Rajah’s shock, as Harry was Lord Maharajah’s squire from many years ago. Sir Rajah then introduces himself to Harry, who goes on to exclaim to everyone that Sir Rajah came to help them. The other villagers parade Sir Rajah around as Pal and Faith look around Harry’s house, knowing that he had gone on some adventures on his own. Harry, Sir Rajah, and Good Boy soon return, with Harry reintroducing Cook, now known as Jane, to Sir Rajah; Sir Rajah says that the manor didn’t feel the same when they left, knowing that they made it feel like home the entire time they were there. Jane and Harry then have Sir Rajah collect water at the nearby well while Pal and Faith have a brief argument about being called Sir Rajah’s "servants"; it soon turns into a discussion about Sir Rajah, knowing that he is getting the attention that he apparently craves because of being attached to his father. Harry, Jane, and Sir Rajah then return with the bucket and warm it over a furnace. Sir Rajah washes up first, followed by Pal and Faith. The three then change their clothes and eat before sitting by the fireplace. Harry then says to Sir Rajah that while he served under Lord Maharajah, he went on about a dozen quests across all corners of the realm, and compliments Sir Rajah about having the same courage and nobility as his father. Jane seconds this, noting that the villagers just mind their own business during a storm, leaving it up to her and Harry to keep an eye out for any witches that may spawn from lightning strikes. Sir Rajah says that he’ll stay to help for as long as he takes, making Faith wonder as to what will happen regarding the journey to Castle Redstone. Harry then says that he sees numerous travelers heading toward Castle Redstone, only to never return. He then talks about a so-called "ancient evil" that destroyed the entire castle and the city that surrounded it. Sir Rajah then asks Harry if he got anything, and Harry gives him a jar of redstone dust. Faith questions Harry’s actions, saying that Sir Rajah will come around as to why he was here in the first place, and Harry says that it might be time for her "party" to end.

=== Chapter 19 ===

Two days later, another storm hits Maharajah Town, and Pal is exhausted after killing off three witches. The next morning, Pal still feels exhausted as he wakes up, seeing Sir Rajah training with Harry. Sir Rajah decides to build his own house next to Harry’s as the days go by. One day, while Sir Rajah and Pal are out chopping wood, the two discuss about Faith, with Sir Rajah hoping that she doesn’t leave them. Pal then gives Sir Rajah a pep talk, saying that Harry and Jane belong to the past and that he shouldn’t be stuck in his father’s shadow. Some time later, however, Faith says to Pal that Sir Rajah has basically given up, as the town is considering building a statue of him next to his father. The two (Faith and Pal) consider leaving, but then think of a plan. They decide to make some lightning rods out of copper so that lightning wouldn’t strike the village, so they mine out copper over the next several days so they can get just enough lightning rods to use. Sir Rajah ignores them at first, but curiosity soon gets the better of him and asks Faith and Pal as to what they are doing. Pal talks about how lightning rods can be used before mentioning that he and Faith are leaving, much to Sir Rajah’s shock, who then says that he is sick of everyone in Maharajah Town, including Harry, who calls Sir Rajah his "little boy". Sir Rajah then asks Pal and Faith as to when Pal and Faith will be leaving, and Pal says that they’ll leave after the next storm. Sir Rajah then notices a storm coming in from west, so they decide to leave tomorrow.

=== Chapter 20 ===

Harry calls for Pal to head inside as the storm approached Maharajah Town, but Pal is busy placing down lightning rods around the edge of town. Pal is sure that they will work, but Harry dismisses it as "foolishness". The two then have an argument about Sir Rajah and his future life before Harry strikes Pal in the head with a lightning rod, knocking him unconscious.

=== Chapter 21 ===

Faith swings the door open as Harry rushes inside his house with Pal cradled in his arms, saying that he was attacked by a mob that was "roaming the edge of the woods". Harry then asks for Sir Rajah to come along and help, but Faith decides to do so instead as Sir Rajah is busy aiding Pal. It isn’t long before Faith works on installing the last lighting rod, but Harry insists that they need to head back to the village. Faith then notices some dents in the lighting rod, realizing that it was hacked out of the ground. Just then, Harry swings his sword at Faith, and she quickly reacts by turning around and blocking his sword with her axe. She then asks as to why he is doing this, and Harry says that he wants to save Sir Rajah. Harry then prepares to attack Faith, but is blown back when lightning strikes the tip of his sword, knocking him unconscious. Sir Rajah, Pal, and Faith then leave Maharajah Town for Castle Redstone the next morning, with Good Boy following close behind. The four soon come across a bridge with a gap in the middle. Pal pulls a lever nearby, and feels like nothing happened at first, but pistons soon appear pushing gray slabs up to the gap. The four (Sir Rajah, Pal, Faith, and Good Boy) soon scout over sections of cobblestone roads and some buildings that had collapsed, with Pal rearranging the redstone circuits in each one so they would work. One of the circuits in a "castle complex" opens a hidden door in a wall, but everything inside had faded with time, realizing that it was a makeshift trap. The four then attempt to camp out for the night, but are surrounded by a horde of zombies, leaving them no choice but to take shelter inside the makeshift trap. They get inside just in time as one of the zombies is decapitated as the hidden door closes.