<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Stonesword Saga/Mobs Rule!}}</noinclude>

=== Prologue ===

Po, along with his group of friends (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, and Theo), notice several pairs of red lights behind a cloud of green fog. Morgan thinks that everyone will be okay, but Po isn’t so sure as the pairs of red lights were the eyes of mobs that were controlled by a hive mind. They only had one objective, and that was to destroy Po and his group of friends. The pairs of red lights are soon revealed to be several bunnies, and Po and company quickly start running away from them.

=== Chapter 1: When Things Split Apart, Whose Fault Is It Anyway? ===

Po does his best to ignore the hole that had appeared in Minecraft’s sky, which everyone else had started to call it "the Fault". Morgan feels worried about it, knowing that he doesn’t like it when the game gets unpredictable. Harper thinks that getting a closer look at the Fault would help, as she likes to gather information on things before jumping to conclusions. Theo then says that the best place to find information on the Fault would be in the game code, reiterating that it was a suggestion. Po then tries to shrug off the Fault, saying that the version of Minecraft that they are playing had always been weird, knowing that they were playing using specially-designed VR headsets. The group then decide to hunt for butterflies, knowing that they had something to do with the transformation of the Evoker King. Theo then says that he saw one over by a mountain. Pointing to it, he also notices a small village at the base of it. The group decide to head over there, hoping to find out more information about the Fault. The narrator then mentions that the butterflies were created when the Evoker King was split into six different mobs, with a butterfly pointing toward the direction of each mob.

Upon arriving in the village, Harper decides to trade some hay blocks with a villager for an emerald. Just then, Jodi notices a llama walking up a mountain nearby, and the group decide to climb the mountain, hoping to find out where to go next. Upon reaching the summit, Jodi decides to pet the llama, but its eyes turn red and starts attacking her. The group have no choice but to flee, soon heading to a small fissure that leads into a lush cave. Now out of sight of the hostile llama, the group set up their beds and get off Minecraft for the night, knowing that tomorrow will be a better day to explore the lush cave. Po agrees, knowing that tomorrow will be the beginning of the election campaign for Woodsword Middle School, and he intends to not miss out on that.

=== Chapter 2: A Spoonful of Competition Never Hurt Anybody—but a Forkful of Bad Ideas Will Poke You in the Eye Every Time! ===

The next day, at school in the real world, Jodi, Theo, Harper, Morgan, and Po are all in the cafeteria, along with the class hamster, Baron Sweetcheeks. Jodi brought Baron to the cafeteria for emotional support as thinking about the red-eyed llama still frightens her. Morgan thinks that the llama might have something to do with the Evoker King. Just then, Po announces to the others that he will run for class president. Everyone feels excited, except for Morgan, who thinks that Po will have too much to handle if he is elected. Po then says that drama club is on a short break, and also says that he’ll be able to set up schedules for the student government. This would mean that there would be no meetings on days that Po decides to play Minecraft with his friends. Morgan then brings up paperwork that needs to be filled out, with Theo saying that it is supposed to be turned in by the end of the week. The group decide to pitch in on the paperwork to turn it in on time so Po will be able to have his name on the ballot. Just then, a girl named Shelly Silver enters the cafeteria, complete in her Wilding Scout uniform, and announces her intention to run for class president. Everyone in the cafeteria applauds, except for Po, who grips his pennant as tight as he could. Just then, a dozen Wilding Scouts emerge from the kitchen, each carrying a tray with ice cream cups. Everyone except for Po eats the ice cream with the spoons provided, which also have a message to vote for Shelly etched into them. Morgan then says to Po that he has some competition, and the latter nods, appearing to accept defeat.

=== Chapter 3: Three Hints About What’s in the Water: It’s an Amphibian. It’s a Passive Mob. and It’s Difficult to Spell! ===

Although Po doesn’t feel happy that Shelly is now on the ballot, his feelings about it are forgotten almost immediately as he rejoins his friends to play Minecraft that afternoon. The group (Po, Harper, Morgan, Jodi, and Theo) decide to explore the lush cave, soon coming across a pair of axolotls. Po then dives into the water to swim around with them. Unbeknownst to him, however, he soon falls down a waterfall to an underground lake. The others head down a slope of stone to check on Po, but he assures everyone that he is ok. Just then, Morgan notices green mist appearing at his feet, not noticing that a big creature is approaching at him from behind.

=== Chapter 4: Axolotls: Super Cute! Terrible Judges of Character! ===

It isn’t long before Morgan notices that Po is mouthing at him to look behind him, and soon notices a giant cave spider with an image of a skull on its abdomen. The cave spider then rears back, lifts its front legs, and spreads its jaw wide, hissing as a green mist comes out of its mouth. Po begins to panic in the water as the mist covers him, not immediately noticing that the axolotls were covered in it too. Suddenly, the axolotls become hostile, with their eyes turning red. The group have no choice but to retreat to a nearby tunnel with many twists and turns. They end up going far away enough to set up a small room, placing cobblestone on both sides of the tunnel. As Morgan places down the last torch for the small room, they decide to talk about the situation in the real world tomorrow, knowing that more torches would be needed for them to be able to survive.

=== Chapter 5: We All Scream for Ice Cream, but Maybe We Should Use Our Inside Voices. ===

The next day, at school in the real world, Theo and Harper notice an ice cream truck parked across from the school and ask Po about it. Po says that the truck belongs to his cousin, Hope, who sells ice cream on the weekends. Po also says that he and Hope were at a family wedding, with the latter hoping to leave early, so Po acted like he had fainted. Harper then asks Po as to why he would be a better candidate than Shelly for class president, such as what promises he would make. Po sheepishly admits that he doesn’t know why, leading Theo to explain to Po that its basically a popularity contest if he doesn’t have a plan or a reason as to why people should vote for him. Po shrugs it off, saying that he’ll think about what Theo said as his first campaign promise. Not long after, during lunch, Po meets up with Hope, who is preparing to hand out ice cream cones. Morgan joins them soon after, wearing an orange vest over his clothes and holding a stop sign; he says that all the paperwork was filled out for Po to officially be on the ballot for class president, as well as paperwork to hand out ice cream. Po feels happy that Morgan is here to volunteer, saying that he’ll make him his second-in-command if he is elected. Morgan then mentions that there are separate elections for other members of the student government. Po says that he can talk about them later as he announces through a megaphone that free ice cream is available.

Some of the students who decided to sit outside for lunch head over to the ice cream truck, making a line stretching down the sidewalk within seconds. This ends up causing a traffic jam as Morgan stands by the crosswalk, holding up his stop sign. Jodi then steps away from the crowd and says to Morgan that she had made an announcement in the cafeteria, causing even more students to show up. It isn’t long before the group of students get agitated; a paper plane is thrown at Theo’s head, and around half of the students in line start throwing whatever they have. Hope begins to panic as well, not expecting so many students to show up. Although giving Po a thumbs up at his remark about the students being votes, she did not look happy. Po then makes an announcement in the megaphone to vote for him, hoping that it would make the students cheer, but he received more jeers than cheers. Just then, Mr. Mallory shows up, appearing angry from the mess that had been made; the garbage containers were overflowing with garbage, and several cups and spoons had been littered all over the ground. Realizing that Po is responsible, he decides to forbid him and his friends from playing Minecraft after school, and instead have them clean up the mess. As the lunch bell rings and the students begin heading back inside the school, Po realizes that he has a lot of apologizing to make.

=== Chapter 6: Getting Over the Underground Is Hard to Do. Surviving the Underground Might Be Even Harder! ===

Later, after school, Po and company help out with cleaning the front lawn of Stonesword Library. Fortunately, for them, Mr. Mallory applauds them for their work and allows them to play Minecraft for a bit. It isn’t long before Po, Morgan, Jodi, Harper, and Theo spawn back in the room that had been created in the tunnel, with Po dressed up as a politician. The group ultimately decide to look for the giant cave spider, hoping to observe it from a safe distance so they can figure out if it is doing things that a spider normally can’t do. They then leave the tunnel and soon come across a large cavern, home to dripstone, stalactites, and stalagmites. Po then begins to hear a faint sound that resembles music, with Harper noticing it coming from behind a nearby wall. Theo realizes that the wall is of basalt, but Morgan says that its actually smooth basalt. He mines at it, revealing an amethyst geode, and soon begins mining away at it.

=== Chapter 7: Thank You for Your Hospitality, Villagers! I Especially Enjoyed It When You Stopped Hitting Me. ===

Not long after finding some iron, copper, lapis lazuli, and even emeralds, the group decide to head back up to the surface and take shelter in the village at the base of the mountain. Harper wonders as to what she’ll be able to trade some emeralds for an enchanted book or redstone dust, while Po places down a glowing sign that reads "Vote for Po!". Harper soon finds a cleric, while Theo looks around for a librarian. Just then, a fog appears at their feet, making the villagers eyes turn red. A farmer and a fisherman soon joined the group, along with several other villagers, leaving the group no choice but to flee the village. Fortunately, the villagers soon give up chasing them, but they start heading down into the cave that the group had just climbed out of. Po thinks that the giant cave spider might be involved, with Jodi thinking that they should follow them. Morgan and Theo decide against it as it is getting late, hoping to find out about it tomorrow. As the group set up their beds in the now-empty village, Po begins to realize that the giant cave spider is making an army of sorts.