<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies Return!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 1 ===

Ben hears the sounds of zombies off in the distance, but instead of running away from them, as his instincts would normally have him do at this moment, he instead moved toward them. He shudders in fear as he leaves and starts heading east, and although he had hated to leave the shelter that he had set up, he decided to stay low and avoiding fights as best as he can, seeing as he is dealing with the job of being a babysitter. He whispers Johnny’s name, but soon comes across a normal zombie, and kills it with relative ease. Ben then hears the sound of another zombie, but stops short of attacking it, as he realizes that the sounds coming from this zombie were indeed Johnny (Bobbie’s younger brother), who had been attacked during a zombie siege in a village, and Ben instinctively reached out for the lead that was attached to Johnny. The two then start heading back to the shelter, and although Ben offers Johnny to wear a carved pumpkin, Johnny appears to refuse to wear it, and then emits a low growl as if he wanted to be reunited with Bobbie. As the two begin heading back to the shelter, Ben notices a ruined portal off in the distance and decides to check it out, soon noticing a chest tucked up by the structure. He opens it out of curiosity, hoping to find a golden apple, but only finds a golden carrot. Nonetheless, Ben is still optimistic that a golden carrot can be used to cure Bobbie, but he ends up swatting it away. Ben then puts the golden carrot into his inventory, and the two continue heading back toward the shelter. Ben decides to keep his guard down as the torches guide them, but a creeper soon explodes nearby and destroys half of the shelter. Ben then ultimately decides to take shelter in the fortress that once belonged to Logan, his former friend.

=== Chapter 2 ===

Meanwhile, Bobbie is in a tunnel with Logan, separated by about three hundred zombies, and so she decides to keep her distance so she isn’t noticed, but soon looks around for a hiding spot, only to make one of her own in a wall. She then notices a figure emerge from the darkness, who is also named Ben, but she decides to call him "Other Ben", knowing that he was serving as Logan’s lackey. Logan then wonders as to what is taking so long with Other Ben, but he says that he just finished building the fence. Logan then says to pack everything up in the morning before asking to get dinner ready. Sighing, Other Ben sets down a bed, a furnace, and a chest nearby, and although Bobbie wishes she could do the same, the dangers of oversleeping creep into her mind, wondering if she’d be able to catch up with Logan, but ultimately decides to sleep as she notices Other Ben fiddling around with a turtle egg before quickly putting it away as the zombies were attracted to it. Bobbie then whispers to herself that she is hatching a plan, but sighs as she thinks the real Ben would’ve laughed it off.

=== Chapter 3 ===

Although Ben would’ve preferred to have traveled above ground, Johnny is still refusing to wear the carved pumpkin, so he has no choice but to travel via the tunnels underground. Fortunately, torches lead the way, and they can use the rails to head to their intended destination. Although Ben suggests to himself about mining in the tunnels, he ultimately decides against it, knowing that he would never be able to find the railway again if he dug too deep underground. Nonetheless, he and Johnny soon arrive at the underground entrance to Fort Rot, which was built by Logan, but the entrance was blocked off by an obsidian wall. As Ben only has an iron pickaxe, he has no choice but to mine up to the surface. Fortunately, night had already fallen, but Ben still shuddered a bit in fear at the sight of Fort Rot. He then notices two of Logan’s cronies, Hatchet and Flip, halfway up the fortress, and begins heading toward it.

=== Chapter 4 ===

Back with Bobbie, she decides to wait until Other Ben is asleep before making her next move, as she intends on stealing the turtle eggs from him to stall the zombie horde. Just then, a bat swoops down at her, but she quickly kills it with her diamond pickaxe to make sure Other Ben doesn’t wake up, and soon steals the turtle eggs. Bobbie then wonders to herself as to how far she is willing to go to stop Logan.

=== Chapter 5 ===

Back with Ben, he and Johnny are spying on Fort Rot from a high platform. Ben then talks to Johnny about how Hatchet and Flip are better equipped than them and briefly reconsiders going back to the house in Plaintown before ducking out of view as Hatchet and Flip get into a brief argument about zombies, wondering if there are still any left at Fort Rot. Ben then decides to use their worry to his advantage, and with everything he needs to craft a fermented spider eye, he begins to remove his armor, much to the confusion of Johnny.

=== Chapter 6 ===

Bobbie then wakes up Other Ben a bit away from where they were. Other Ben is shocked that he was "kidnapped" as Bobbie says that she wants to talk with him about Logan. She gets right down to the talking points, saying that Logan has other people do the dirty work for him, and asks Other Ben if it’s unfair for him to basically act as bait for zombies. Other Ben ignores this, saying that he has to earn his way from doing so and stomps off in a huff. Nonetheless, Bobbie feels optimistic about the brief encounter as she had basically sowed seeds of doubt into Other Ben’s thoughts.

=== Chapter 7 ===

Ben decides to wait until Hatchet and Flip fall asleep before making his next move, and starts building a hallway along the exterior of Fort Rot. Once that is complete, he seals Johnny behind some stone before building up to the top of Fort Rot, and tiptoeing down through the roof to find a brewing stand. Just then, Ben watches from afar as Flip wakes with a fright at the sound of a zombie, saying to Hatchet that he alleges the sound is coming from inside Fort Rot. Ben then uses the opportunity to drink a potion of invisibility and knocks down a torch, leaving Flip and Hatchet shocked. After hearing more of the zombie and seeing more torches fall to the ground, along with a hidden pressure plate opening and shutting every hallway door, the two have no choice but to run off into the night just as Ben’s invisibility expires, and he couldn’t help but laugh.

=== Chapter 8 ===

The day after Bobbie confronted Other Ben, she is back to watching him from afar as the latter hurries to meet with Logan at the front of the zombie horde. The three people and the horde only travel a short distance before Logan calls off the march by sounding a goat horn, leaving Bobbie a bit puzzled. Other Ben then heads to the back of the zombie horde and immediately notices Bobbie, asking her as to what she is doing. Bobbie then says that she feels like he is up to no good and asks as to why they stopped. Other Ben then says that it is none of her business and asks for her to stop following him and Logan before heading back to the front of the horde. Bobbie then notices light shining down from above in the tunnel ahead of her, making her realize that Logan had gone above ground, and so she decides to follow him out of curiosity. Upon going above ground, Bobbie soon realizes that she is in a jungle biome, and more importantly, is right next to a village, or so she thought. She dashes toward the supposed villagers, only for one of them to fling an arrow at her, making her realize that they were not villagers, but pillagers, and that the village was actually a pillager outpost. Bobbie then hides behind a tree trunk and draws her sword, ready to fight them, albeit with a hint of doubt in her mind.

=== Chapter 9 ===

Meanwhile, back at Fort Rot, Ben and Johnny have the fort all to themselves. Ben decides to scour through some chests, finding some armor, potions, milk, meat, and even a bone for Johnny to gnaw on. Upon making it to the bedroom, Ben notices a painting on the wall depicting a skull that makes him feel uncomfortable, so he decides to take it off, only to be shocked that there is a hidden room behind the painting. In the hidden room was a book, filled with Logan’s handwriting. Ben immediately closes the book shut, but thoughts seep into his mind about reading it, as he never really knew Logan at all. He reaches for it again, only to be interrupted by Johnny, who Ben leads to the center of the fortress, which is home to the now-empty chamber that was once used by Logan to pen up the zombie horde. Understanding of the several tunnels leading off the chamber, Ben instantly realizes that there was no way for him to know which direction to take that would lead him to Bobbie, realizing that he may be lost forever. He then says to Johnny that they are going to have to stay here for the time being as Ben isn’t sure of what Logan is planning, but he quickly realizes that he can learn about his plans by reading the book that had his handwriting.