{{distinguish|MinecraftEdu 0.9849}}This version was released as snapshot at was is named as 0.941 and 0.942

== MinecraftEdu 0.941 and snapshot 0.9841 ==
{{Infobox version
| title = 0.941
| image = 
| edition = MinecraftEdu
| type = 
| date = December 13, 2012
| downloads = 
}}{{More images}}{{Lost version|nolauncher=1}}
'''0.941''' is the first snapshot for [[MinecraftEdu 0.9849]] and has a snapshot named as '''0.9841''' [https://64.media.tumblr.com/967385fd270a8062d73e3df280d2e859/e1bca05c814cf62e-51/s500x750/9a0aa9a5be70f20797631d3d4e80ed8ad8018531.png (Proof)], released on December 13, 2012. It is based on [[Java Edition 1.4.5]].

Bit of a status update on what’s going on:

- We are merging MinecraftEdu into Forge to include support for all external Forge mods!! This is still not finished, so please do not get your hopes that up yet =)

- MinecraftEdu has been ported to [[Java Edition 1.4.5]]. There is a severe problem that all MinecraftEdu blocks have the same ID values as new Minecraft values, so all MinecraftEdu blocks are replaced when you start up old 1.3.x map. That is why we still haven’t released the latest version. We have a converter for this, but there has been some problems when testing the converter so that sometimes even the new worlds are being converted again and you will encounter some problems. Not sure if we just release this converter as an separate tool or include it with latest version of MinecraftEdu so that users can manually convert old maps into new format.

Development has been mostly done by @Tonsse for the past months, I have been mostly focusing on my thesis to get my university degree finished. After that I could fully focus on MinecraftEdu development.

- We have a new trainee, @I-H creating us MinecraftEdu video tutorials and doing us all that fancy  tutorial + help material that we have been so much missing! Check this out!

- We currently have the system ready in MinecraftEdu Servertool that allows users to download maps from Internet. I am still very skeptical about the upload thing and allowing everyone to just upload maps into our server, so I have been thinking of first just providing the download capability and giving some people rights to upload maps into our system so that we get feedback how downloads works out for people. I also got an idea of integrating some / all world templates also into some learning system, like Joomla and there could be a link so that you can browse the world template materials in our Joomla / similar site. How does that sound?

== A new MinecraftEdu snapshot is now live! ==
{{Infobox version
| title = 0.942
| image = MinecraftEdu mod 0.942.png
| edition = MinecraftEdu
| type = 
| date = January 15, 2013
| downloads = 
}}{{Lost version}}
'''0.942''' is the second and final snapshot for [[MinecraftEdu 0.9849]], released on January 15, 2013. It is based on [[Java Edition 1.4.7]].

A new version of MinecraftEdu is available for testing for existing customers. Please use it at your own risk and make backups of anything important.

'''Highlights includes:'''

* Minecraft 1.4.7 compatibility
* Ability to download world templates (work in progress)
* Ability to create world templates from your own saved worlds
* Forge mod support to run many popular mods such as ComputerCraft
* Ability to update (+downgrade) MinecraftEdu using the launcher
* and much more!

MinecraftEdu owners can grab it from our Members area now! Login and press the “Test snapshot” link in middle of the members area.

[[ja:MinecraftEdu 0.9849/開発版]]