<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies Return!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 28 ===

On the other side of the nether portal, Bobbie is surprised to see that she has stepped into a warped forest, with Peg close behind. Peg then asks Bobbie if this isn’t what she was expecting, and Bobbie says that she always heard that it was an infernal plane of fire and death. Peg agrees that it is, but it also has forests and civilizations unlike anything she has ever seen. She then says to Bobbie that her parents were exceptional, and Bobbie agrees, mentioning that they are currently zombies. Peg seems confused at first, saying that she has never heard of adventurers becoming zombies, and Bobbie tells her that her parents are actually villagers, adding that she was adopted by them, and that her parents are part of the zombie horde that Logan is in charge of, and asks her not to hurt them. Peg says that her bastion can withstand a zombie siege and hopes that Logan will give up eventually, giving Bobbie hope that she’ll be able to set up the cure (a potion of weakness and a golden apple). Peg then says to her not to daydream too much such as not to disturb an enderman, so she casts here eyes to the ground as the two hike to the edge of a cliff. As the two take in the vast view of a massive lava lake and ghasts off in the distance, Bobbie notices a crumbling fortress dead ahead, wondering as to what it is. Peg says to her that it what is left of what was a bastion remnant, adding that she modeled her home after it. Peg then heads down the side of the cliff, asking for Bobbie to come along and that she is eager to introduce her to some friends. Bobbie seems surprised that she has friends down here, and Peg agrees, adding that they’ll be her friends as well as long as she keeps her gold helmet on. Bobbie then follows her toward the bastion remnant.

=== Chapter 29 ===

Peg and Bobbie soon make it to the bastion remnant, with Bobbie doing her best to mimic Peg’s boldness, even though she also has a bit of fear in her stomach. The two head into the courtyard, with Bobbie asking if someone used to live here. Peg then says that there are and they are soon surrounded by piglins, with Bobbie asking as to who they are. Peg then gives her a gold ingot and asks for her to make pig noises when she comes across one. Just then, three piglins approach the two, and Bobbie instinctively tosses the gold ingot on the ground. The nearest piglin retrieves it and looks it over before dropping an ender pearl where it is standing. Peg then mentions that she decided to name those three piglins Shane, Madison, and Troy, much to Bobbie’s slight disgust, who asks Peg if she had spent a lot of time with them. She replies that she had, doing everything from joining in on their hunting to cleaning out their hoglin stables. Bobbie then asks as to what art piglins make, and Peg says that they like to dance, raising her arms out at her sides and moving them up and down whilst bobbing her head. Shane, Madison, and Troy soon join in on her dancing. Peg then extends a gold ingot to Shane, who happily follows it as the piglin, Peggy, and Bobbie walk back to the nether portal. Bobbie and Peggy go through the portal first, appearing back in Peg’s fortress, and the piglin goes through the portal soon after. Suddenly, the piglin bends over as if it were in pain, and its body shakes uncontrollably, causing it to transform into a zombified piglin. Someone screams in horror, which turns out to be Ben, and Peg scowls at him, wondering what he is up to, as Bobbie runs out of the room toward the center of Peg’s fortress.

=== Chapter 30 ===

Ben quickly realizes that he left the door to the cellar wide open, causing some zombified piglins to enter the stairwell leading to the cellar. Bobbie then rushes to Ben’s aid, with Peg mentioning to him that zombified piglins aren’t hostile. Ben then says that they are, adding that he was locked in a room with one before. Bobbie immediately suggests that it was Logan’s idea to do so, and Ben confirms as such, saying that he told him that he would never be ready for the Nether unless he went up against a zombified piglin. Peg then asks Ben as to who attacked first, and Ben sheepishly admits that he attacked first, adding that Logan said to him that it was the key to fighting them. The cellar is now filled with hundreds of zombified piglins, with Johnny stuck in between all of them. Bobbie scoffs at Johnny for staying behind and orders him to come to her, and Ben sees Johnny attempting to reclaim his bone from a zombified piglin. Johnny, eventually, ends up going to Bobbie without his bone. The three then argue for a bit about how Johnny had come down to the cellar in the first place, with Ben claiming that Peg had kidnapped him from Ben and tossed him into the cellar, which she immediately denies, saying that she had "merely set up a play date" between Johnny and the zombified piglins. Peg then says that she has attempted numerous times to transform the piglins into humans with splash potions and even invisibility, but nothing works. Bobbie then mentions about the cure for someone being zombified, and Peg says that she might have it, agreeing to help by curing Johnny first. Just then, the sound of a goat horn is heard throughout the fortress, with Bobbie soon realizing that Logan is here.

=== Chapter 31 ===

Indeed, Logan is seen on the far side of the bridge leading to Peg’s fortress. Peg then wonders if Logan won’t have much of an army when the sun rises above the horizon, but as it does, the zombies are revealed to be adorned with iron helmets to prevent them from burning up. Just then, Peg pushes a button on the wall, causing the bridge to explode. Logan scoffs, knowing that this would just slow him down, but Peg ignores him and then asks Bobbie about the cure for zombification. Bobbie says that it uses a golden apple and a potion of weakness, but she requests to make it a splash potion so it can be thrown at Johnny. Peg then hurries to the kitchen and soon finds the ingredients for the potion of weakness, as well as a golden apple, but mentions to Bobbie that they will also need a good amount of soul sand to slow Logan down before he arrives. Bobbie then asks as to where she can find it, and Peg says that she can find them in the soul sand valley. Bobbie then heads back to the nether portal with Ben and Johnny to get some soul sand, while Peg stays behind to brew the potion and keep an eye on Logan.

=== Chapter 32 ===

Ben stands beside the nether portal in Peg’s bedroom, exclaiming that he isn’t ready to set foot in the nether portal, but Bobbie helps him through, and the three (Ben, Bobbie, and Johnny) end up in a warped forest. Ben then accidentally locks eyes with an enderman, and is only able to run away a few steps before he is knocked off a cliff by the enderman. Fortunately, Ben lands on some soul sand, which is what they need to slow down Logan. Ben is then shot with an arrow from a nearby skeleton, but Bobbie kills the group of skeletons with ease thanks to the netherite sword that Peg had gave her. Just then, some piglins from the bastion remnant were coming over to attack Ben, albeit they were slow to catch up thanks to the soul sand. Ben has no choice but to run back to the nether portal, with Bobbie placing down some stone blocks to help as he doesn’t have the enchanted boots that allow him to walk on soul sand at the normal speed. On the way back, Ben takes out a carved pumpkin from his inventory and places it on his head to avoid any endermen he may come across.

=== Chapter 33 ===

As soon as the three (Bobbie, Ben, and Johnny) step back through the nether portal to Peg’s bedroom, Bobbie soon realizes that Peg had broken her promise, seeing her use the potion of weakness and a golden apple on the piglin named Shane instead, which doesn’t work. Bobbie scolds Peg for wasting the cure that was meant to be used on Johnny, and Logan is already close to being done with constructing a new bridge. Bobbie then switches her focus, thinking that she can make Other Ben turn against Logan, and Ben agrees that it is worth a shot to at least try to do so. Bobbie then tosses the soul sand to the ground in front of Peg, telling her to either use the soul sand against Logan, or to stay out of their way. Peg then tosses a pair of elytra to Bobbie, saying that she can use it to sneak past Logan, but Bobbie doesn’t know what they are. Ben then reiterates to her that she can glide through the air with them, with Peg adding that she can use them to get to the other side of the bridge while she keeps Logan occupied with her army of zombified piglins.

=== Chapter 34 ===

Ben then asks Bobbie if she is sure about this, and she replies that she isn’t, but she really wants to resolve this in a peaceful manner. After Bobbie puts on the elytra, she and Ben wait for Peg to distract Logan. After Other Ben places down the final block for the bridge, Peg appears from inside her fortress with her army of hundreds of zombified piglins and asks for Logan to talk to her. With Logan distracted, Bobbie flys across the chasm with her pair of elytra, safely landing on the other side, and soon confronts Other Ben, showing off her netherite sword as well as some pages from Logan’s journal, which soon convinces Other Ben that he doens’t need Logan after all. Bobbie then attempts to say to him about the plan, but Other Ben had already screamed out for a revolution as he breaks the fencing holding the zombies together. Bobbie shouts for him not to, adding that it could be ended peacefully, but it was too late. As one of the zombies prepares to attack Logan, he ducks out of the way, causing the zombie to hit the zombified piglin, and all of the piglins soon attack the zombies.

=== Chapter 35 ===

Bobbie looks down at the chaos that ensued, knowing her plan to drive a wedge between Logan and Other Ben had worked a little too well. Meanwhile, back in Peg’s fortress, Ben rushes downstairs to the chests near Peg’s brewing stand and finds some potions of harming, as well as some gunpowder he could use to make them splash potions. As he begins brewing them, he also goes through the other chests and finds some gold ingots, which he could use to craft a golden apple. Just then, Peg storms into the fortress, and although Ben says that he could explain what he is up to, Peg says that she doesn’t care about what he takes (except for the wither skulls), adding that her plans for a piglin utopia had gone wrong. Ben then says to Peg that Bobbie had trusted her, knowing it takes a lot for her to trust someone, and that Peg had used Bobbie’s compassion against her. As Peg rummages through a chest of bones, she admits as much, adding that she just helped her grow up a bit.

Ben then crafts the golden apple and rushes out the door, throwing some splash potions of harming at the zombies and giving Bobbie the golden apple needed to help her cure Johnny, adding that they need to find a way to stop the zombies attacking the zombified piglins. Bobbie then says that Peg might have an idea, and Ben turns around to notice her building a wither. He attempts to rush over to stop her, but is blocked by Logan just as she places down the final block of soul sand necessary to build it. Ben asks for Logan to move over, but Logan says that Peg couldn’t be that reckless to build a wither just as she places down the three wither skeleton skulls, making the wither come to life. Peg then says to the four that the wither will erase them as well as her mistakes, adding that she is heading to the Nether and never coming back. Logan then fires an arrow at her, but Ben shouts at him to shoot the wither instead. Logan then says that the wither cannot be hurt until it explodes after being awakened, and it soon does just that, partially destroying the bridge. Peg is thrown into the chasm below as some zombies and piglins are toppled into the lava from the initial explosion.

=== Chapter 36 ===

Logan, Bobbie, and Other Ben then attempt to scatter to avoid the wither skulls, which are being tossed by the wither at random. Bobbie ducks her head to avoid one of them as it blows up a piece of the bridge a few blocks away from her, but her allay, Layla, is knocked to the ground by the explosion. Other Ben then extends a hand out to Bobbie to help her across, but just then, a wither skull explodes at his feet, causing him to fly back at the base of a mountain nearby. Acting quickly, Bobbie uses her diamond pickaxes to make a small cavern in the mountain, and drags Other Ben inside. She then asks him if he is OK and where he hurts, and Other Ben replies that he is hurting everywhere. Logan then interjects, saying that the whole mess they got into was because of Other Ben. Bobbie then wonders as to where her Ben is, and Logan says that he ran into Peg’s fortress. Other Ben then coughs, making Logan realize that he is under the wither effect, and would most definitely need some milk to get rid of it. Bobbie then mentions that she has her golden apple, and Logan says that it could at least help Other Ben with regenerating his health faster than the wither effect is taking it away. Although Bobbie insists that she needs it for her brother, Johnny, she gives in and feeds Other Ben the golden apple, and he feels better almost immediately. Bobbie then peers out the cavern and notices the wither scanning the outside area for new targets to find, seemingly avoiding the zombified piglins and zombies, and also feels somewhat relieved that her fellow zombie villagers had survived the carnage.

=== Epilogue ===

Meanwhile, Logan is already wondering if he could use to his advantage the fact that the wither doesn’t attack hostile mobs, but then it clicks to him that he doesn’t have an army of zombies anymore thanks to the wither. Logan then overhears Bobbie and Other Ben (who now prefers to be called Benjamin) arguing about the wither and the two hordes of hostile mobs roaming the land, including that the zombies won’t even die in sunlight thanks to Logan adorning them with helmets. Logan then scoffs the two, saying that the zombies wearing helmets was a brilliant plan, although he does now admit that things have gotten out of hand. 
Eventually, Bobbie has Logan and Benjamin join her to help stop the wither and cure her fellow villagers, but Logan warns the two for them to follow his lead and do whatever he says in order to survive.