{{Distinguish|Minecraft Indev}}
{{For|the development cycle as a whole|Java Edition Infdev}}
{{Infobox version
|title=Minecraft Infdev
|image=Infdev 20100630-1340.png
|startver=Infdev 20100227-1414
|latestver=Alpha v1.0.0
|date=[[Java Edition Infdev 20100227-1414|February 27]] – [[Java Edition Infdev 20100630-2|June 30, 2010]]
|clientdl=Unavailable from launcher ([[Java Edition Infdev 20100618|except for one]])<br>see individual pages for more info
|serverdl={{-}}
|edition=java
|prevparent=Minecraft Indev
|prevparentlink=Minecraft Indev
|nextparent=Alpha v1.0
|no_protocol=1
|no_data=1
|no_al=1
|no_java=1
}}

'''Minecraft Infdev''' refers to all 31{{verify}} versions of '''[[Infdev]]''', released from [[Java Edition Infdev 20100227-1414|February 27, 2010]], to [[Java Edition Infdev 20100630|June 30, 2010]], as well as [[Java Edition Alpha v1.0.0|one version]] of [[Java Edition Alpha|Alpha]] released on June 30, 2010. The major change in Infdev is the addition of infinite world generation. These updates also added various new blocks and items as well as [[tree]]s and the [[brick pyramid]].

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|title= Minecraft Infdev
|Sign
|Ladder
|Oak Door
|Monster Spawner
|Oak Stairs
|Cobblestone Stairs
|Golden Apple
|Bucket
|Water Bucket
|Lava Bucket
|Saddle
|Minecart
|Rail
}}

=== General ===
'''[[Cloud]]s'''
*Can now be 3D.
'''[[Options]]'''
*Fast/fancy graphics option toggle.
'''Suffocation'''
*The player now suffocates while stuck inside blocks.

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Sand]]'''
*Re-added.
'''[[Gravel]]'''
*Re-added.
'''[[Sign]]s'''
*Can be written on.
'''[[Ladder]]s'''
*Can be climbed.
'''[[Door]]s'''
*Can be opened and closed.
'''[[Mob Spawner]]s'''
*Spawn in dungeons.
'''[[Stairs]]'''
*Cobblestone and wood variant.

=== Items ===
'''[[Golden apple]]s'''
*Can be eaten.
'''[[Bucket]]s'''
*Can pick up liquids.
'''[[Saddle]]s'''
*Spawn in dungeon chests.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Arrow]]s'''
*Re-added.
'''Shadows'''
*Added
'''[[Minecart]]s'''
*Can be ridden.
'''[[Rail]]s'''
*Can have minecarts placed on them.

=== World generation ===
'''Generated structures'''
*[[Brick pyramid]]s
*[[Obsidian wall]]s
'''[[Far lands]]'''
*A line of [[obsidian]] blocks extending infinitely along the x and z axes.
'''[[Tree]]s'''
*Reimplemented
'''[[Ore]]s'''
*Now generate naturally.
'''[[Dungeon]]s'''
*Spawn with mob spawners and loot chests.

== Changes ==

=== General ===
'''[[Sky]]'''
*Is now completely blue (hex #0000FF)
**This is completely internal to the development period and only existed for [[Java Edition Infdev 20100227-1414|a double version]]
'''The [[player]]'''
*Now drops their items upon death.
*Now dies after falling out of the world.
'''[[Daylight cycle]]'''
*Days are now slightly longer than nights.

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Fire]]'''
*Now spreads to flammable blocks.
'''[[Grass]]'''
*Now spreads to nearby [[dirt]] blocks.
'''[[Cobblestone]]'''
*Now generates after water touches flowing lava.
'''[[Obsidian]]'''
*Now generates after water touched a lava source.
'''[[Lava]]'''
*Lava now only spreads 4 blocks instead of 8.
'''[[Bedrock]]'''
*Now generates at level 0.
'''[[Sand]]'''
*Now has a falling animation.

=== Mobs ===
'''Entities'''
*Now save after a world reload.

=== World generation ===
'''Infinite worlds'''
*World now generate infinitely in every direction.
'''[[Starting House]]'''
*Removed
'''[[Cave]]s'''
*Caves are even more regional, with truly Swiss cheese areas being possible but rare.
*Increased variety in tunnel thickness, increasing the odds of branches.
*Added natural gravel and dirt underground for more varied caves.
*Rooms now have 1-5 exits, instead of just 1, making natural hubs.
'''[[Water lake|Water]] and [[lava lake]]s'''
*Springs, both water and lava, are more common.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Infdev}}

[[pt:Minecraft Infdev]]
[[ru:Minecraft Infdev (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Minecraft Infdev]]
[[zh:Java版Minecraft Infdev]]