<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles/Dungeon Crawl!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 7: The Floor Is Lava! Also, the Walls Are Lava! Oh Man, Everything Is Lava!! ===

Back in [[Minecraft]], [[Harper Houston|Harper]] uses her [[pickaxe]] to mine through one of the walls that housed the sand [[shore]], revealing a massive sea of [[lava]] with numerous block bridges criss-crossing above it. The group (Harper, [[Morgan]], [[Jodi]], [[Po Chen|Po]], and [[Ash Kapoor|Ash]]) decide to stay on the bridge, soon coming to a crossroads. The group decides to head to the right, which leads directly to a dead end at a wall. Jodi suggests to mine through the wall, but Ash notes that lava is likely on the other side that’ll rush in and kill them. Po then points out a red [[door]] at the level of the lava. Harper tries to point out a path to the door, but soon realizes that its a 3D maze. Po suggests to build a bridge to the door, but Jodi has another plan up her sleeve. She walks to the edge of the bridge and starts placing blocks to form a ledge that would allow her to walk along the wall, followed by mining some blocks out from the [[water]] reservoir on the other side of the wall, allowing the water to flow down to the lava and turn it into [[cobblestone]].

The group face more hostile mobs as they make it through the dungeon, using the same strategies as they had used on the [[spider jockeys]] at the entrance to the dungeon. Eventually, they come across a bridge made entirely of [[glowstone]] with a huge door on the other side. As they crest the bridge, however, four [[Guards|mysterious figures]] show up and attack the group. One of them is a knight riding a beast that is the size of a horse but resembles a dragon. Realizing that the figures aren’t found in vanilla Minecraft, the group have no choice but to retreat, closing the door leading to the glowstone bridge behind them and placing down some [[obsidian]] for good measure. The group then carves out a hideout inside the walls and disconnect for the night, hoping to find a way to beat them.

=== Chapter 8: There’s No Such Thing as an Unwanted Cookie. ===

The next day, at school in the real world, Po is getting ready for the basketball game. Every student he passes in the hallway gives him a high-five, while several of the [[cheerleaders]] bring in home-baked cookies for the team to snack on. At the end of lunch period, every student sings the school song as part of a pep rally. Although Po appreciates the support, he feels disappointed as everyone else will be staying at [[Woodsword Middle School|Woodsword]] for play rehearsals while the basketball team travels to another school for the game. Later, after school, Harper and Ash wish Po good luck at his locker. Although Po says that he wish that he could stay to help with the play, Ash says that the lighting cues he set up were perfect and that someone else will run the lights for tonight’s rehearsal. Just then, [[Theo]] shows up, explaining to Ash that [[Ms. Minerva]] might end up rewriting the ending. She immediately objects to it and storms off to the auditorium with Harper following her. Theo then mentions to Po that he has some ideas for programming the lights to be automated, but Po says that Ms. Minerva is against anything high-tech. Theo leaves soon after, saying that he’ll be able to showcase his programming skills one day. Po then heads over to the basketball team bus.

=== Chapter 9: Keep Your Head in the Game! But Imagining You’re a Wizard Is Okay, Too. ===

That night, the basketball game was well underway. At one point, Po’s mind wandered on the stuff going on in Minecraft as he was penalized for a block that had gone wrong; the other team took the lead on the ensuing free throws. Later on, Po imagines himself being the wizard in Minecraft, covering the court in mere seconds before passing the ball to his teammate [[Raul]], who scored a three-pointer. Thoughts began to converse in Po’s head, such as how he’d fallen in love with playing basketball in the first place, or what would happen if he tried out other things such as acting. He snaps back into the game as Raul passes him the ball. Eventually, the game was over. Po’s team had won. Unbeknownst to him until the game had ended, Morgan and Jodi were also in the stands cheering him on. Po asks if the two skipped play practice, but Jodi says that the set design team was ahead of schedule; Morgan says that he was studying some of his lines, but was allowed to leave early as Ash was tied up with other things. Po then says that he feels like there is more to life than basketball, but Morgan and Jodi say to him that he should revel in the victory for tonight. Po does what they suggest, donning a smile and acting goofy for his teammates, but his mind starts to wander about chasing phantasms.

=== Chapter 10: Introducing…Block Party! They’ll Knock Your Block Off! ===

The next day, back in Minecraft, Harper chips away at the obsidian barrier that was set up as the group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) decide to try to go after the four mysterious figures again. Along with the knight riding the horse-dragon-beast, there was also a [[zombie]] wielding an [[axe]], a villager resembling a sailor with a [[crossbow]], and a robed, hooded figure with a [[bow]]. Just then, Jodi gulps down an [[Invisibility potion]] as everyone attacks for mysterious figures. The knight knocks over Po as he sets up his [[Fire Charge|fire charger]] [[dispenser]], the zombie makes Ash fall back, the robed figure blinds Jodi in black clouds, and the sailor dodges the potions thrown by Harper. Not long after, the group retreats by drinking [[Potion of Slow Falling|potions of Slow Falling]], and then jumping down to the [[bedrock]] below them. Harper begins to wonder if they’ll never be able to beat those figures, but Morgan says that he’ll think of something.

=== Chapter 11: Many Hands Make Light Work. (Lacking Thumbs, Many Feet Tend to Be Less Useful.) ===

The next day, at school in the real world, Po and a majority of the students spend their lunch period in the auditorium setting up the stage for the play. Po has his lighting cues confirmed to memory, but the others were scrambling to get their tasks done. Ash has Po give to Jodi and the paint crew a can of fuchsia, but he bumps into Morgan on the way, who shows Po a fake croissant that almost resembles the food items in Minecraft. Po says that it looks impressive, but wonders as to why Morgan is on the props team; Harper says that they fell a bit behind schedule, but Morgan says that he finally has his lines memorized. Po soon finds Jodi, who is working with Theo on painting the sets. As Jodi takes the can of paint from Po, she wonders as to where Doc is. Po says that he banned her from the play because of attempting to use automated technology, but Jodi is determined to find another role for her. Just then, Po realizes that although everyone has a specific job on the play, they help each other out on everything. He begins to bring up the dungeon in Minecraft, but is interrupted when Theo is nearby.

As Theo returns to painting, Ash begins to think that the mysterious figures that guard the dungeon are actually just [[Resource pack|reskinned]] mobs; the zombie with an ax is a [[vindicator]], the sailor is a [[pillager]], and the knight riding the horse-dragon-beast is a [[ravager]] with stuff attached to it. Now that everyone knows what to expect, they themselves decide to mix things up a bit as well.

=== Chapter 12: Team Po Versus the Block Party (Remix)! In Which Our Noble Heroes Lay Down the Smackdown! ===

Back in Minecraft, the group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) decide to sneak up on the mobs. Jodi builds a pillar one block at a time to get back up to the platform. The entire group then use everything they can to attack the mobs, which are killed with ease. As they prepare to go through the door, the blocks break into pixels as a bright light blinds everyone. Covering her eyes, Jodi feels the [[VR goggles]] on her head, and Harper soon realizes that the computer lab had lost power completely. Just then, they notice Theo at the door, who quickly apologizes, saying that he tripped over a power cable. Morgan says that they have to go back, but Ash says that it’s already dark outside. Theo then says that he was here to look for something he lost earlier, which appears to resemble a blank sheet of paper. He quickly leaves, once again apologizing for what happened. Jodi seemed suspicious about the whole thing.

=== Chapter 13: The Show Must Go on. Don’t Let It Go on Without You! ===

Although Po wanted to get back to Minecraft as soon as possible, it would end up being a few days before he would do so as everyone was working on putting the finishing touches on the play. Ash meets with everyone backstage, about to make her final report to Ms. Minerva, but Jodi says that Morgan had lost his voice. Ash decides to have Po fill in for Morgan’s role, while also having Doc fill in for Po’s job of lighting cues. Later on, the play finally begins, and Po excels at his performance. Backstage, however, Morgan is able to speak, shocking everyone. Morgan admits that he had fooled everyone to avoid acting, but says that Po did a great job and wanted Po to see that he could be an athlete and an actor. Po thanks Morgan as he feels a rush of gratitude. By the end of the play, Po takes a bow on stage as the applause thrills him, realizing that he can find a way to be both an athlete and an actor.

=== Chapter 14: Don’t Say We Didn’t Warn You…. ===

Ms. Minerva congratulates everyone on an amazing play, while Po congratulates Doc on working on the lighting. Doc then says that she has some ideas for automated lighting throughout the school, hoping that Ms. Minerva would notice, but Po doubts it. The group (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) decide to head back into the computer lab as power was restored to it, soon heading back into the world of Minecraft. Everyone spawns back at the vault door, which is slowly opened. Inside, they notice a mysterious block floating above a plinth. Po wonders if they should take it, but the [[Evoker King]] soon appears, saying that he told the truth about the dangers of the dungeon. He also says that the dungeon was built to keep him away from the mysterious block (now known as the [[foundation stone]]) and that the group had basically cleared the way for him to obtain it. The Evoker King then thanks them by spawning numerous [[vexes]], clouding their view as the King takes the foundation stone and leaves without a trace. Morgan wonders as to what to do, and Po thinks that they might have to have Theo join them, noting that Po learned recently that Theo knows how to use code. Morgan decides to have him join, while also realizing that they had been running from the Evoker King for far too long. The group are determined to stop the King once and for all.