<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Mob Squad: Don't Fear the Creeper}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 9: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he hears a splash from far off and worries if something had happened to Mal or Lenna, but is relieved when Lenna breaks the surface and exclaims that she found something. Tok looks over the side of his boat and notices "a big square soft of building" that is made of "a beautiful teal that shimmers and seems to love within the spotlight". The four then drink fresh potions of water breathing and dive down to explore the building, but Tok soon realizes that the building is actually a monument. He then notice somethings that looks like a pufferfish, but with one eye, and it attacks him. Chug assists in killing it, and the group swim into the monument to avoid being attacked by more of the pufferfish-like creatures. Just then, everyone feels nauseous and weak. Mal attempts to mine at the blocks of the monument, now named "prismarine", but her pickaxe doesn’t budge. Tok then says that it feels like they were cursed for heading in the monument. Lenna asks why, and Tok says that it feels like the monument is holding something that they need to take. Chug then pulls out armor and enchanted tools for everyone, while Tok pulls out potions of regeneration for everyone to drink. After doing just that, Chug takes off and swims deeper into the monument.

=== Chapter 10: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he swims deeper into the monument. Upon swimming up to the next level, one of the pufferfish-like mobs attacks him, but he kills it with his sword. Another of the pufferfish-like mobs targets Mal, so Chug attacks it, only for it to charge after him. Tok is also attacked by the pufferfish-like mob. All of the pufferfish-like mobs in the area are soon killed, but Lenna is nowhere to be seen. Chug decides to go look for her, narrowingly avoiding being attacked by another pufferfish-like mob, now referred to as a guardian. He soon finds Lenna being cornered by two guardians and kills then with relative ease. Lenna quickly explains to Chug that the guardians chased her, and her bow had broke. Chug picks up the books that she had thrown at the guardians before returning her broken bow and giving her a gold sword. Chug then picks up the prismarine shards and crystals that had been dropped by the guardians before the two head out of the room. Feeling that the monument is like a maze, they corkscrew through the halls, only to come face-to-face with an elder guardian. Chug and Lenna have no choice but to retreat, eventually heading back to the room that Tok and Mal are in. The group then find another door and go through it, hoping to find Efram, but instead stumble on another elder guardian. Chug has everyone back away as he attacks it, and although he is attacked, he shouts at everyone else to swim away, which they do. Chug does all he can to kill the elder guardian, but it hits him in the back, knocking him unconscious and causing him to fall to the ground.

=== Chapter 11: Jarro ===

Switching to Jarro’s POV, back on land, he compliments himself about the shelter that he had made, but begins to realize that his friends are taking much longer than expected to get back. Jarro begins to pace around the shelter before he notices the horses (Speckles, Mervin, Dottie, Bee, and Moo) staring off into the plains. Jarro looks out into the plains and notices giant words in netherrack which had been lit on fire, spelling out "HA HA". He heads over to investigate when he hears one of the horses whinnie, and soon notices all five of them running away in different directions. Jarro runs after Speckles, who soon meets up with him and tosses its head as if Jarro was dumb for being lured by the flaming words. Eventually, Jarro gets all of the horses back in the paddock, only to find upon heading inside the shelter that his bed was destroyed. This now makes him believe that the group was indeed being followed, and he suspects that Orlok and his brigands have made it back to the Overworld for revenge. Jarro then asks the group’s pet cats, Candor and Clarity, to run away if any bad guys arrive. Just then, the cats hiss and bolt into the shelter as Jarro comes face-to-face with a creeper.

=== Chapter 12: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, back in the ocean monument, she feels like her body is on fire and made of iron as everyone attacks the elder guardian. It isn’t long before Tok falls unconscious, with Lenna starting to slip into unconsciousness as well. Mal is practically begging for them to get back up and fight when an old man appears wearing netherite armor and a turtle helmet, and holding an enchanted trident. He says that he is here to save them just before he kills the elder guardian and collects the sponge that it drops. The old man then carries Tok and Chug under his arms and tells Mal to carry Lenna, which she does. The five swim back up to the surface and plop into their boats, and the old man assists Mal with giving the others potions to restore their health. Tok then asks to himself if he beat the elder guardian, but the old man says that he did. Chug then wakes up, and he and Tok embrace, knowing that they both wanted to save the other from the elder guardian. Chug wonders as to who defeated it, and Tok points to the old man. Lenna shouts that the old man is Efram, and he immediately goes on defense, asking as to who sent them here. Mal says that they weren’t sent by anyone, stating that Nan is sick, and is wondering as to where to get the enchanted golden apple. Efram sheepishly admits that he ate it when he went down to the ocean monument for the first time, much to everyone’s shock. The group begin to row back toward land when Efram shouts that he didn’t eat the only enchanted golden apple in the world. Mal asks as to where they can find more, and Efram says that he has a map that is hidden away which he was saving in case he needed it. Efram then says that after he lost Cleo, he couldn’t join the other Founders, so he built a compound instead. Chug thinks that the compound is underwater, but Efram sheepishly admits that it was built on an island in the middle of the ocean, much to everyone else’s disbelief. Efram begins rowing toward the island, with the group following close behind. Efram then says to the group that they need to stay with him when they get to the island, noting the many traps that are laid out which will kill anyone that triggers them.

=== Chapter 13: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she notices Efram direct the group around the island that they had stopped at to build their boats, and soon come across an island that is "heavily forested". As they go ashore, they follow Efram through the path to a clearing which has a one-story house, pens for cows and sheep, and small farms for pumpkins, sweet berries, melons, carrots, and potatoes. Efram then asks for the group to stay outside as he goes inside his house to get the things needed to find the enchanted golden apple. He heads back out as dusk becomes nighttime, and then gives the map to Mal, and gives Tok a book on redstone. Lenna then asks as to where they will be sleeping, and Efram says that they won’t be sleeping where he lives because he doesn’t want others chopping down the trees. Efram walks the group back out to their boats and then heads back to his house alone, saying that it is OK if they decide to stay on the sand. With that in mind, Mal digs out a shelter at the edge where the beach and forest meet, and they sleep for the night after eating some chicken and potatoes. The next morning, after breakfast, the group are back in their boats and row toward the shore where Jarro’s shelter is. Lenna soon points toward something off in the distance, and Tok shouts that Jarro’s shelter is on fire.

=== Chapter 14: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he can’t believe what he is seeing. Jarro’s shelter that had been set up for him and his friends was on fire, and the horses and pets are missing as well. As the group go ashore, Chug rushes over to a "lump" lying just beyond in the grass; the lump is Jarro, now with two black eyes. Tok digs his pockets for a potion of healing and has Jarro swallow some of it. Mal asks as to what happened, and Jarro says that a person, currently referred to as "Creeperhead", showed up and attacked him. Jarro further describes Creeperhead as a person in a green cape that wore a creeper’s head as if it were a mask, and thinks it is a guy as he heard the person grunt. Chug then mentions about how he, Lenna, Mal, and Tok nearly died in an ocean monument, saying to Jarro that he shouldn’t feel like that he did something wrong. Lenna then asks Jarro if he know which way Creeperhead went, and Jarro says that he doesn’t. Tok then asks if it might’ve been Orlok, but Jarro instead shows everyone the "HA HA" that Creeperhead had set up yesterday. Mal asks why he did that, and Lenna says that Creeperhead did it to intimidate him. The group then look for Poppy and the horses, but it isn’t long until they are found. The group then prepare to find the enchanted golden apple as Tok plans on setting up some traps.

=== Chapter 15: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he is fishing with Jarro as everyone else tears down the shelter. Not long after, the group (Chug, Jarro, Mal, Lenna, and Tok) now head in the direction opposite of home. Riding alongside the ocean, the group make it to a meadow to build a shelter, complete with a stone wall facing the ocean and a trap set up by Tok. The shelter is twice as big as their previous ones, and the horses are corralled into a fence panel, much to Jarro’s relief. Heading inside, Jarro tries his best to avoid being seen crying, but Chug and Lenna notice and comfort him, saying to him that they’ll deal with Creeperhead together, much to Jarro’s relief. Eventually, everyone falls asleep and they leave the shelter the next morning, as Mal mentions to everyone that they should arrive at the cave shown on the map in about two days' time. After a quick stop for lunch, Chug soon points out a strange island in the distance, wondering if the things on it are cows or mushrooms.

=== Chapter 16: Jarro ===

Switching to Jarro’s POV, he too is also confused about the island. Lenna politely asks to stop as Chug says he could stock up on mushroom stew, but Mal politely refuses at first, saying that Nan is a step closer to death for every moment they waste. Everyone else mentions to Mal about Nan’s favorite thing in the world being hearing about new discoveries, and Mal eventually relents, saying to make it quick so they can be closer to the cave by nightfall. As the horses are enclosed in  fences, Lenna and Chug decide to head over to the strange island, and Jarro and Mal are allowed to come along. Upon going ashore, the three are surprised to see mooshrooms. Mal collects some mushrooms while Jarro milks a mooshroom for a bucket of milk. As they prepare to head back to the mainland, they hear Tok screaming, and row back as fast as they can. At first, Chug believes that Creeperhead kidnapped Tok, but Lenna says that there were no signs of a scuffle, nor were there a trail of footprints leading away from the pets or work area. Nonetheless, the group split up to find him, eventually finding him in a meadow. Tok explains that he screamed because he tested a potion of swiftness on himself, much to Chug’s disgust despite being proud of him. Nonetheless, the group soon head back to the beach, with Jarro knowing that Creeperhead is still out there.