<noinclude>{{fiction|fifth|chapter|Minecraft: Castle Redstone}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 29 ===

Faith and Sir Rajah collapse against a wall. The wither wasn’t nearby, but Faith sensed that it was looking for them. Sir Rajah then gives Faith a potion of regeneration, saying that she needs it more than him, and she happily gulps it down. The two then wonder as to where Pal and Good Boy are, but was hopeful that they were searching for them. Sir Rajah and Faith then come across some pressure plates; the wooden one activates pistons, the golden one activates a fire, and the stone and iron ones do nothing. The two believe that they can use the wooden pressure plates as a means of crushing the wither, and Faith soon runs off to find and lure the wither toward her.

=== Chapter 30 ===

Pal pulls the lever to stop the cart as soon as he finds the garden with overgrown crops. Good Boy soon finds some pumpkins among the black roses, and Pal gets to work on digging out as many pumpkins as be can before the sun sets. Meanwhile, Faith eventually finds the wither and begins to lure it back toward where Sir Rajah is. Just then, Pal looks over the pumpkins that he had dug up and soon realizes that they have faces on them. He then finds a pair of shears and starts using them on the pumpkins.

=== Chapter 31 ===

Faith soon makes it back to Sir Rajah, with the wither closing in quickly from behind. Faith then tumbles on an iron pressure plate after being knocked from the shockwave of pistons close by, and a hissing sound is heard throughout the corridor. Faith then shouts at Sir Rajah to shoot the iron pressure plate, but it doesn’t seem to work. Just then, the wither passes over the iron pressure plate, which is just enough to trigger some TNT which causes the corridor to collapse on top of the wither, which is presumed to be dead. Faith starts looking for Pal, but soon notices the wither breaking through the debris. The wither doesn’t move as fast, however, knowing that there is no escape, and Sir Rajah and Faith prepare to kill it, even if it means that they might be killed in the process.

=== Chapter 32 ===

Pal places the carved pumpkin on a T-shape of iron blocks, but nothing seems to be working. He prepares to carve out another pumpkin with the set of shears, but is interrupted by the sounds of clanging and iron scraping across stone. Pal then looks back up at the pumpkin placed on the T-shape of iron blocks, which had transformed into an iron golem. Meanwhile, Faith and Sir Rajah have a strategy in place to defeat the wither: hit it and then retreat, but neither of them are strong or fast enough. Faith considers splitting up as a means of as a distracting the wither, and although Sir Rajah offers to take her place, he eventually relents. Just then, the two hear pounding coming from elsewhere in the corridor, and the figures responsible for the sound soon break through the wall. Faith and Sir Rajah turn around and are surprised to see Pal and Good Boy, along with several iron golems.

=== Chapter 33 ===

The iron golems, albeit with several imperfections, begin attacking the wither, but some of them get destroyed at the hands of the wither. Just then, Faith runs toward the wither and prepares to kill it, and the wither twists one of its heads to face her and attack her. Fortunately, an iron golem twists the same head in the nick of time, allowing Faith to slash the wither in half with her sword and ultimately kill it. Pal then asks Faith if she is OK, and she smirks in response.

=== Chapter 34 ===

Faith then asks Pal is he is sure about staying to rebuild Castle Redstone, and Pal says that he is, saying that there is "so much more to be discovered and rebuilt" here. The iron golems that survived the wither’s attack are helping him rebuild. Faith feels unsure, knowing that they should never split the party (consisting of Sir Rajah, Pal, Faith, and Good Boy) but Pal insists on staying, saying that when he sees a pattern, that it needs to be completed. Pal then says that he’ll send a signal using a beacon if he needs any help, showing the nether star that he would use to craft it. Sir Rajah, Faith, and Good Boy soon leave, with Sir Rajah knowing that he would have to tell the bards back home about their adventure.

=== Epilogue ===

Now much older, Sir Rajah, Faith, and Good Boy remain beyond the signs of civilization, with mountains behind them and a few villages popping up for trading every now and then. One night, Sir Rajah is baking some pumpkin pie as Faith keeps an eye on Good Boy playing outside. Just then, Faith notices the shine of a beacon’s beam off in the distance, realizing that Pal needs help. She heads inside and grabs the netherite sword off of her mantelpiece, and she, Sir Rajah, and Good Boy prepare to go on a new adventure.