{{Distinguish|MinecraftEdu mod 0.984}}This version was released as a pre-release has the features of [[MinecraftEdu 0.984|0.984]] in the game was labelled as 0.984.

== Pre-release ==
{{Infobox version
| title = mod 0.984
| edition = MinecraftEdu
| type = 
| date = October 29, 2012
| downloads = 
| prevparent = 0.941
| prevparentlink = MinecraftEdu mod 0.941
| prev = 0.942
| prevlink = MinecraftEdu mod 0.942
}}{{More images}}{{Lost version|nolauncher=1}}
'''0.984 pre-release''' is the first and final pre-release for [[MinecraftEdu mod 0.984]], released on October 29, 2012. It is based on [[Java Edition 1.3.2]].

=== Changes ===
The new version of MinecraftEdu has been under development for quite some time and we are happy to release the final pre-release version. This release will be moved as stable build next wednesday if there are no game-breaking problems. Version will be the same, 0.984 for the stable build if no problems occur.

The 1.4.2 version of Minecraft has also just come out and we will begin to incorporate it into MinecraftEdu just now. With 1.4.2 there is a issue with our block id:s that are conflicting with new 1.4.2 block:s, so that will be the biggest issue for us to tackle with 1.4.

'''Small changes:'''

- Open menu for servertool.

- Tooltips to include main menu buttons.

- Replaced big admin menu icons with smaller ones.

- Translation fixes.

- Fixed updating issue (does not anymore ask for updating).

All problems can be reported directly at support(at)teachergaming.com or directly in our Twitter accounts. Have fun!

[[ja:MinecraftEdu mod 0.984/開発版]]