<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: Mob Squad}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 19: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he finishes eating his mushroom stew as the group leave for the woodland mansion. The black cat that had previously belonged to the witch decides to follow along, with Tok deciding to name it Clarity. Mal leads the group with her sword in hand, followed by Chug with Thingy, then by Tok with Candor and Clarity, and finally, Lenna with Poppy. Not long after, Lenna kills a zombie with her bow and arrow, having Poppy go after the rotten flesh that it dropped. A sheep then appears, and so the group kills it for raw mutton. Chug has brief thoughts about his mom’s steak and potatoes whilst also wondering as to how he and company will be treated when they arrive back home. Nevertheless, Chug feels confident and asks Mal if they are going to build a shelter close to the mansion. She instead thinks that hiding in the mansion would be a good idea as to not make much noise, but is open to feedback. Not long after, the group arrives at the woodland mansion, taking it in awe. Chug describes it as being able to barely fit within the walls of Cornucopia. Tok wonders as to how the mansion was built. Chug then decides to leave Thingy behind in a small pit, giving it a potato so it doesn’t starve. The group make it up to a set of glass windows, but with no door in sight, they decide to walk along the outside wall, going around the corners whilst hearing the grunts and groans of the things living inside. Eventually, Chug and company make it to a set of double doors and enter the mansion. As the sun is setting, they decide to sleep in the alcove behind the stairs. After eating some cooked mutton, everyone falls asleep except for Mal.

=== Chapter 20: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he and company all wake up, ready to take on whatever is inside the woodland mansion. Mal, Chug, and Lenna take up their weapons as they prepare themselves for whatever could happen. The group decide to head down the hallway to the right first, coming across a room with nothing but a fountain and a sapling. Although Tok is worried that the evokers, vindicators, and vexes might’ve already left this mansion and decided to head to Cornucopia again, he keeps that thought to himself, not wanting to worry the others while also acknowledging that they have only been in one room so far. The next room has just flower pots with tulips inside them, followed by a one-bed bedroom, and then a wool statue of a chicken. The next room after those three is a storage room; Lenna and Chug keep guard while Mal and Tok go through the chests. One of them has a diamond sword, a potion of healing, and an enchanted book with Flame. Mal hands the diamond sword to Chug in exchange for his iron sword whilst also taking the healing potion from the chest. Tok is interested in enchanting Lenna’s bow, but soon realizes that an anvil is needed for that to happen. Rounding a corner, Tok and company find a dining room with food on the table, consisting of potatoes, bread, fish, and cookies. Everyone decides to eat before heading off to the next room, which is a library filled with several books. Tok is amazed, but quickly moves on, knowing that now isn’t the time to read. The next room is full of cobwebs, so they skip to the next one, which is just a variety of blue-colored wool. The final room in the right hallway is another bedroom, consisting of banners, a rug, and a big bed. Suddenly, Lenna kills a stray zombie, and the group has a burst of confidence, although someone starts running around the corner, preparing to hit Mal with an axe.

=== Chapter 21: Mal ===

Switching to Mal’s POV, she staggers after being attacked by someone that was "strange, dead gray". Chug quickly takes action and kills Mal’s assailant with his diamond sword. Tok rushes over to check on Mal while Lenna runs back to the dining room to get some food. Soon after, Mal starts feeling better after eating some steak, realizing that the thing that attacked her was a vindicator. In her head, Mal realizes that the woodland mansion is a place where nobody knows what to expect, and that everyone has to be ready for anything. She quickly recovers from the attack and soon, the group come across a bedroom with a ladder leading to a loft. Tok goes through the chest on the loft, consisting of a diamond chest plate, some bread, a golden apple, an enchanted book, and a music disc labeled "cat". Chug puts on the diamond chest plate to replace his iron chest plate that he gives to Mal. Just then, Lenna shoots down a skeleton just outside the room and collects the arrows it dropped, but quickly moves to another room to avoid being attacked by a vindicator. Mal notices this and rushes after the vindicator, killing it with ease. She also assists Lenna in taking down a skeleton adorned with some armor, taking the iron helmet for herself. The room has a chest, albeit empty, but has several mushrooms; the whole group take some for later. The next room after that is modeled like a blacksmith’s shop. They kill the vindicator inside it and then Tok uses the anvil to enchant Lenna’s bow with Flame, and Chug’s sword with a different enchantment. Not long after, Mal and company are back at the set of stairs. Chug quickly leaves to check on Thingy, who is doing fine. The group then head up the stairs to the second floor, going through several rooms until Mal eventually comes across a diamond pickaxe that seems familiar. Inspecting it, she realizes that its Nan’s pickaxe. Chug also finds an iron helmet that had belonged to him, while Tok finds a cookie that was Nan’s. Mal then prepares to enter the next room when she hears the sound of a horn, being greeted by some vexes. She tries to swing her sword at them to no avail, but Lenna quickly kills them with her Flame bow. Mal and company then enter the next room, which is home to two vindicators and an evoker. The vindicators charge at them while the evoker begins raising its arms.

=== Chapter 22: Lenna ===

Switching to Lenna’s POV, she quickly takes down the two vexes with her Flame bow, while Mal goes after the vindicators so Lenna has a clear view of the evoker. Just then, the evoker summons some spectral fangs from underneath, slashing at Lenna’s legs; she stumbles but quickly refocuses as the evoker summons two more vexes. One of them hits Lenna as she looks away for a split second to check on Chug, making her feel like her body is burning. Lenna asks for Chug to focus on the vexes as she refocuses on the evoker, killing it with two shots of the bow. She also notices Mal and Tok going after the two vindicators. Not long after, Chug takes a hit to the head from a vexes sword, while Tok trips over one of his cats. Lenna fires an arrow at a vindicator, but it misses wide, hitting the wall behind it. She grits her teeth as she regains some strength, firing an arrow at the vex targeting Chug. It lands successfully, making Chug finish it off with his diamond sword. Tok then tosses Chug the golden apple, who eats it quickly. Now with regained strength, he goes after the other vex. Lenna hits the vex with another arrow, making Chug finish it off with his sword once again. Mal then kills one of the vindicators with her diamond pickaxe, making everyone focus on the last vindicator. Mal gets in a hit, but her back is against the wall. Tok then jabs at it with his iron sword, but its not enough. The vindicator then charges for Tok, its axe prepared to make its mark on his head. Although Tok raises his sword to defend himself, Mal, Chug, and Lenna all attack the vindicator simultaneously; Mal with her pickaxe, Chug with his sword, and Lenna with an arrow. The vindicator collapses onto Tok before disappearing, leaving behind its axe and two emeralds. Tok backs up to the wall, curled like a ball, worried that the vindicator was going to kill him. Chug and Lenna sit down beside Tok to comfort him while Mal keeps guard at the entrance to the room. Tok and Chug have an exchange of puns to laugh and calm down, while Lenna takes a deep breath, now realizing that she and her friends are much stronger now. She also soon realizes that they did what they were supposed to do: kill off the evokers that were sending the vexes to Cornucopia. Everyone decides to eat before they leave, while Mal also decides to check out the room that they are in. With permission, Lenna allows Poppy to keep guard at the room entrance. Chug chows down some potatoes, while Lenna and Tok eat some cookies. Soon, Mal comes across a cloth map on the table in the center of the room, and everyone heads over to check it out. The map consists of the woodland mansion, Cornucopia, the river with the log bridge, the village, and the mountain pass, but Lenna also discovers a path that leads from the woodland mansion directly to Cornucopia. She quickly realizes that its the minecart path that she saw from way back when they found a cave underneath their shelter.

=== Chapter 23: Chug ===

Switching to Chug’s POV, he realizes that the rails underground connect the woodland mansion to Cornucopia. The line on the map goes from the mansion to the direct center, the Hub. As such, Chug and company begin to wonder if anyone was even aware of it. Tok then points out that the rail splits off right by Chug’s family’s pumpkin farm. Mal then leaves to collect some food from the dining room while Tok looks over the map for anything odd; he isn’t able to do so. Just then, a skeleton appears, but Lenna kills it almost instantly. Mal then returns with the food, and not long after, the group clear out the rest of the woodland mansion. However, Tok feels like that the group missed something, and Chug realizes that there might be a basement. The group decide to head back to the bedroom with banners and find a trapdoor underneath some carpet. Mal then asks if everyone is ready; they all nod in agreement. Mal then opens the trapdoor.

=== Chapter 24: Tok ===

Switching to Tok’s POV, he feels afraid to head down to the cave, but after a pep talk from Lenna, he feels more confident. Everyone then heads down into the cave and continues forward, soon coming across a an area that is "strange and nonsensical", complete with doors and torches laid out just wherever. The chests are opened, and soon everyone is decked in all sorts of armor. Just then, Poppy hears something and runs toward the sound, with Tok and company following close behind. They soon hear the voice of a male, who admits to be the one poisoning Cornucopia’s farms. Another voice says that they aren’t paid to ransack an entire town, much less only to steal armor and weapons from others. The first male then says for the other to guard the mansion and that he’ll gather illagers to use for the mine-carts, and then barge into the Hub and destroy Cornucopia from within. The first male then feels relieved that he might not be able to taste another beetroot, and Tok and company quickly realize that the first male’s voice is of Krog.