<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: The Haven Trials}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 25 ===

Cece then friends Jo on the console, allowing her and Aminata to send him a message regarding their whereabouts. Jo soon meets up with them and the three start planning on how to get Cranky back. Aminata mentions that Declan and his crew live in a base not far from the village, which the other Anarchians dub as the "Iron Fortress" due to many parts of it being built with iron blocks, as well as being difficult to get into. Cece considers just simply sneaking in when Declan and his crew aren’t around, but Jo says that Cranky isn’t just something that can be left behind. Jo then says that they should sneak inside the fortress when Declan and his crew aren’t home, and then wait for them to log off. Aminata concurs, saying that they should hide in the walls. She also mentions that Declan never logs off and always goes AFK, and that when he does go AFK, for Cece to feed Cranky some fish to regain its trust, and then leave. Cece immediately accepts the plan, and, after Jo pinpoints a location on the map where the fortress is, they set out for it. It isn’t long before the three arrive at the fortress which is described as being "built into the side of a stone hill", along with oak trees for decoration, pig and chicken farms, small areas for wheat, sugar cane, and potatoes, and four entrances all guarded by a pack of four wolves. Horses are also seen leashed to a fence nearby, evidence of the Ocury's close relationship with Declan and his crew.

The three (Cece, Aminata, and Jo) dig their way into the fortress using pickaxes and shovels, eventually breaking into a lounge area set up in the middle of the fortress. They cover up the dirt and then split up to find a place to hide. Soon returning to the lounge, they decide to go with Aminata's idea and hide in Declan’s room, which has an armor stand, a fireplace, several item frames adorned with player heads from the ones that he killed, and a fence post for a lead to be tied to. Aminata then ransacks a chest, coming up with bread, salmon, and baked potatoes to feed to Cranky, and a clock to keep track of time. Cece also ransacks a chest, coming up with three saddles. She then heads back through the dirt path to try to gather leaves from a tree to no avail, but she does get a sapling. Returning back to Declan’s room, Cece mentions to Jo that she is trying to get a block of leaves so they can be able to peep through the wall, thinking that Declan will believe its moss. Aminata then gives Cece a set of shears to use. Cece then has Aminata and Jo follow her back out to the horses, saying that they should saddle the horses now, and ride them off when they leave. Jo and Aminata agree to the plan and saddle the horses as Cece gathers a block of leaves with shears. They then head back to the fortress and seal themselves inside the walls of it, waiting for Declan and his crew to come back.

=== Chapter 26 ===

Declan and his crew of five others soon teleport back to the fortress, with Declan soon entering his room. He ties the lead with Cranky to the fence post and takes off his diamond armor. Declan then notices the block of leaves and prepares to mine at it, but another member of his crew soon enters the room and mentions that he was trying to remove a torch at that spot, but had accidentally both mined out the block and replaced it with the block in his hand, referring back to when they were in a lush cave. Declan says to him to fix it, and he attempts to do so before Declan soon interjects and says to do it tomorrow, saying that he is about to reset his spawn point and go AFK. Declan soon does so, and Cece, Aminata, and Jo, are soon successful in retrieving Cranky and regaining its trust. The three then head back to the dirt path they mined, but Cece soon heads back to Declan’s room, retrieving the diamond armor from the chest, along with a diamond sword, a bow, hundreds of arrows, a random assortment of potions, and a player head from an item frame. The three then leave through the dirt path as they hear some of Declan’s crew fighting off zombies, and soon get on the horses, riding off in the night toward the mountains that is home to the beacon that teleports them to the third Trial.

=== Chapter 27 ===

On the way to the mountains, Jo asks Cece and Aminata if they know what the third Trial is. Both of them say they don’t, with the latter saying that she can’t get past the area crowded with mobs. Jo has Aminata describe the situation in detail, with her mentioning about how to craft a beacon, which is then placed on top of a netherite pyramid. The beacon then activates, which allows the player to enter the portal through the pyramid, and then they are surrounded by hostile mobs. Aminata then mentions that the area she had spawned in was dark, and on an island, and she and Jo quickly realize that the third Trial is killing the ender dragon. The four (Cece, Aminata, Jo, and Cranky) soon arrive at the mountain, craft the beacon, and place it on top of the netherite pyramid, opening up the portal. Before they jump in, Jo says that he has a strategy and asks Aminata if the room was only filled with endermen. Aminata isn’t sure but believes that it was just the endermen, and Jo says that they should look down at the ground when they enter the mob-filled room so as not to provoke them. Cece and Aminata immediately catch on. Aminata then considers about having Jo become the next Ocury, but Jo says that she should be the next Ocury, knowing that he and Cece wouldn’t have come all the way here without her help. Aminata then mentions about the ender crystals surrounding the ender dragon (a total of ten) and that each of them have to be destroyed to be sure they are able to kill it. Not long after, they all jump through the portal.

=== Chapter 28 ===

Indeed, the room that the four (Cece, Aminata, Jo, and Cranky) spawn in is filled with endermen. Everyone remembers not to look up, except for Cranky, which the endermen seem to ignore. Aminata then finds the exit, and everyone follows her. Cece, Aminata, and Jo continue to look down to avoid provoking the endermen. They soon come across some stairs and begin to climb them, but hold out as endermen show up around them. Everyone then does an inventory swap for armor, potions, food, and the like, with Cece being outfitted with an iron sword, a bow, twenty-two arrows, a potion of slow falling, a bucket of water, seven pieces of cooked mutton, and a stack of andesite. The three have a plan on how to attack the ender dragon: Aminata will go for the end crystals, while Jo will be the one doing the heavy lifting – attacking the dragon. Cece is set up as a decoy for the dragon to focus on. Aminata then says that if needed, one should hide behind an enderman if the dragon charges for them, knowing that if the enderman is hit, it’ll start attacking the ender dragon. With that in mind, the four head up to the surface.

=== Chapter 29 ===

The four (Cece, Aminata, Jo, and Cranky) are greeted with the sound of the ender dragon roaring as it circles around the ten obsidian pillars that house the end crystals. Cece, Aminata, and Jo split up, with Cece focusing directly on the dragon. The dragon, however, turns its attention toward Aminata as she takes out a crystal. Cece begins firing arrows at the dragon, and although successful, she soon realizes that she is just wasting arrows. Despite that, the dragon turns her attention toward Cece, which makes Jo come out of his hiding place and land five hits on the dragon, making it go toward him. Cece then fires a few arrows at the dragon, making it go toward her. The dragon then rams Cece into the air, but she drinks a potion of slow falling to make sure she takes no fall damage. Several endermen soon attempt to attack her, but Cece pours out the bucket of water to keep them at bay and kill them with her sword. The dragon then fires a fireball at Cece, which she isn’t able to avoid, yet she drinks a potion of fire resistance. However, she soon realizes that she is in dragon’s breath and gets away from it quickly. Meanwhile, Aminata has already taken out half of the end crystals, making the dragon barrel toward her, but Jo fires an arrow at it, allowing Aminata to take out the sixth crystal, followed by mining out some iron bars to take out the seventh. Going for the eighth, she doesn’t realize the ender dragon flying toward her and is soon knocked off the pillar. Acting quickly, Aminata then turns around and fires an arrow at the crystal as she falls. The arrow directly hits it and the crystal soon explodes.

The ender dragon soon lands and prepares to charge at the three, but Cece fires an arrow at her to divert her attention. After the last two crystals are taken out, everyone fires arrows at the dragon to drain its health. The dragon then perches, allowing Jo to deal heavy damage to it from behind with his diamond sword. The dragon notices this and rams into him as hard as she can, making him slow to get up. Cece and Aminata use whatever remaining arrows they have, followed by whacking the dragon with their iron swords. Jo then charges at the dragon and slashes it three times with his diamond sword. Luckily for them, the dragon is defeated, and the third Haven Trial is complete. Experience points soon fall from the sky, with Aminata collecting the necessary amount to become the next Ocury. Another portal then appears with text reading "Welcome to Haven". Jo then asks Cece if she is ready to see her friend, and Cece mentions that she already has friends, referring to Jo and Aminata. Together, the four walk through the portal, but Cece only sees herself upon making it through.

=== Chapter 30 ===

As Cece gazes upon a world that is bright and colorful and with no hostile mobs in sight, Baba informs her that he was able to get on the phone with Reesa. Although Cece feels happy, she also realizes that her enthusiasm to reunite with Reesa had all but dwindled by the time she had completed the Haven Trials. Getting on the phone, Reesa speaks to Cece, saying that she feels bad for everything that had happened and putting most of the blame on her own father about the situation. Reesa also mentions about how she and Hashim’s friends had built a new base and invites Cece over to it. Cece then mentions that she had help completing the Haven Trials, causing Reesa to mention about bringing them over as well. Cece then abruptly says that she isn’t staying in Haven because the friends that she had made (Aminata and Jo) weren’t allowed into it. Reesa then asks if they had completed all of the Haven Trials. Cece recalls that Jo didn’t complete the first one (killing an evoker), and that Aminata had become the next Ocury. Reesa then says that the Ocury isn’t allowed to enter Haven, much to Cece’s disbelief, and also says that its against the rules of the server. She also says that Cranky (the Tailsman of Chance) can’t be a part of Haven either as the people of Anarchia need it to protect themselves from others. Upon understanding the situation, Cece says that she’ll stay in Anarchia with them, which Reesa understands. She then goes on a long talk about how she had felt when she first left, knowing that she would have to hang out with new friends because of the time zone difference, and also apologizes for forgetting about her. Cece then slips an apology about "destroying" Silver Oaks, and the two laugh, knowing that the Realm that had it is already gone. Reesa then asks Cece as to what she’ll do, and she says that she’ll find her friends. Cece then says that perhaps they could be in their own place, just for themselves, and Reesa nods in agreement.

=== Chapter 31 ===

The following Monday, Cece’s school day seems to go perfectly normal. She meets up with Jo and apologizes to him about not being able to enter Haven. Jo doesn’t mind, however, because he went on solely to help her. Cece then mentions that she isn’t staying in Haven because she would prefer to hang out with him and Aminata more. Throughout the day, Cece focuses more on the subjects in class, and her performance improves significantly. One teacher opens up a desk by the window, and Cece claims it immediately, feeling free to be out of hiding. By break time, Ofure even greets her, this time without her group of friends. Cece offers to Ofure to sit and chat with her and Jo, and although Ofure smiles, she declines. Nonetheless, Cece is hopeful that she found another friend. By the end of the day, Jo receives a text from Aminata about "Haven 2.0" along with coordinates to a location in the server. He excitedly informs Cece about it, who says that she’ll check once she gets home. When she does arrive home, Cece turns on the game console and finds the same message with the same coordinates. Keeping that in mind, she launches Minecraft and joins the server. Upon spawning in, Cece notices that the desert wastelands are now nothing but green. Cranky soon greets her, followed by Jo, who motions for Cece to follow him. She does, and soon they come across Aminata on the other side of a hill, peering through several chests beside a lake. She greets Cece and Jo to Haven 2.0, in which she basically re-enabled flying, teleporting, and people who join would no longer need to fight hostile mobs if they needed to. Aminata then turns her attention toward the grassland, which is where she, Cece, and Jo plan to make a base. Although Aminata says that she could just generate it herself, as she is now the Ocury, she instead plans to help build it instead. Jo then asks about Declan and his crew, and Aminata says that they’ll fight them like they always had, but even then, she hopes that he has changed. She then says that after the base is built, everyone will be welcome, and that it will be paradise because Minecraft is about fun. With that in mind, Cece begins making a map as they begin work on Haven 2.0.