=== Chapter 15 ===

Guy cannot believe that his Night Vision potion has worn off, and begins to panic on finding a way back to the surface. Fortunately, he calms down and hatches a plan using dirt blocks, wooden doors, torches, glow berries, and lanterns to create air pockets. As he makes it back to the surface, he notices a canyon that seems familiar to him. Eventually, he makes it back to Summer, who was already worried about him, having started mining out a new tunnel to try and find him. Guy apologizes, but concurs to Summer that she should see what he found. Summer reluctantly follows him back through the water, going through the air pocket that Guy set up until they reach the surface, noticing the jungle with the temple they were at earlier. Summer also mentions that the river they swam up might end at the village, so the two make boats and go down the river until they come across a pillager outpost, described as a tower with banners that had "gray faces, with angry narrowed eyes". Guy looks through his spyglass, noticing a gray color skin on the occupants of the tower. The two then notice an iron golem imprisoned in a makeshift cell made out of fence posts, followed by a brief argument about what to do with them. They eventually decide to let them go for now and head back to the village, with Summer trading some of her emeralds for glowstone with the villager they named Chemist. Guy notices that Chemist has leveled up, now offering a scute for four emeralds, and an ender pearl for five emeralds. Curious about the emerald, Guy and Summer head over to the library, where Guy reads a caption about endermen. As he gets to the last bit, he is shocked at the words he is reading, and exclaims to Summer that the ender pearls are their way home.

=== Chapter 16 ===

Guy re-reads the last paragraph, describing that ender pearls can point to strongholds when combined with blaze powder, and that the strongholds contain portals that open a doorway to the End. Summer cryptically says that it might be what they are looking for, leading her to say that she is scared of her life without Guy being involved. She also adds that herself and Guy don’t know their real names, wondering if they actually live on opposite sides of the world. Despite the possibility of this being true, Guy shrugs it off and exclaims that he’ll find her again. The two then get to work on making the eyes of ender, noting that they would need at least eighty emeralds to get the necessary ender pearls to make them. Guy and Summer spend the next few days mining in the lush cave and trading with the mason villager the necessary items for the emeralds, along with experimenting with numerous items, like using ink sacs on a sheep, growing trees with bone meal, and making a cobblestone generator. One day, as Guy chops down an oak tree, thinking about heading home, he hears a strange sound, and soon notices an illager. Guy attempts to make peace with it by offering emeralds, but the illager doesn’t budge and shoots him with its crossbow. A few more illagers appear, but Guy kills them off, with one of them dropping a banner. As he picks it up, he feels a sense of dread shiver up his spine. Summer then heads over to check on him, but her voice is cut off by the sound of a horn and the bell in the village. The two have no choice but to head back to the village to check on the villagers as a raid starts. Summer and Guy head up the wall surrounding the village and shoot four illagers, killing them. Guy and Summer celebrate at first, believing that the raid is over, as Summer reaches for a banner dropped by one of the illagers, but Guy stops her as another horn goes off.

=== Chapter 17 ===

Guy is shocked that more illagers start to appear as he thinks to himself that there would need to be a way to end it. This time, there are three pillagers, one illager with a banner, and one vindicator. Guy and Summer block off the doors to the village as the latter kills the vindicator, and the former suggests that they hold off on killing the illagers to find out what is going on. Summer reluctantly agrees, and the two head to the library for research, with Guy hoping that the illagers will eventually get bored and give up. However, the illagers end up staying there throughout the night as Guy and Summer repair the iron golems with iron ingots. Summer then has an idea and crafts some trapdoors, followed by taking out a part of the wall and using the trapdoors as bait for the illagers, killing them all, but another horn sounds as a vindicator, witch, and a ravager appear. Guy and Summer attack the ravager with their crossbows, but a witch throws a healing potion at it. The two then attempt to attack the illager and the witch, but the ravager blocks them. Summer then dodges some potions thrown by the witch, and Guy attempts to do so as well, but he is hit with a slowness potion by a witch. Guy and Summer then meet up with Fletch in their house to trade emeralds for arrows, eventually levelling them up to get arrows of slowness. Summer then has Guy get close to the wall as she heads up to the top of the wall. Guy then raises his shield when Summer tells him to, and is able to line up the illagers so Summer can hit them with arrows of poison. They then kill off the witch and the other illagers, leaving a vindicator alive, and Guy suggests they hold fire, saying that he has figured out how to end the raid.

=== Chapter 18 ===

Guy thinks that the banner is acting as a homing beacon, so he suggests to move it far away from the village so the illagers could follow it, which would lead to him and Summer walling them in. Summer concurs, knowing that they would have to time it just right. She then prepares herself on the east end of the village, chopping away the wood blocking the door, opening it, and shouting at the vindicator. As the vindicator moves toward her, Guy chops down the wood blocking the southern doors and runs out as fast as he can. As he gets further away from the village, Summer aims her bow enchanted with Flame towards the vindicator. Guy shouts at her not to shoot it as he runs back to the village, but it was too late. Summer fires her arrow at the vindicator, killing it as it bursts in flames, followed by the sound of another horn. Guy looks back at the banner, hoping to see the newly-spawned illagers appear around it, but they instead head right for the village. This time, they consist of several vindicators, three witches, and a ravager. Summer shouts at Guy to run, and he does so, running back to the village as fast as he can, but he ends up getting pummeled by a ravager and an arrow shot into his back. Summer shouts at him to head to the eastern door, and he limps toward it, but is shocked to see a few illagers behind him, having split off from the main group. Summer then shouts at Guy to dive into the river, and he does so as he realizes his helmet still has the Respiration enchantment, diving off a bank into the river below. The ravager jumps in behind him as an axolotl appears to heal Guy and attack the ravager. Guy then breaks the surface and heads back to the village, blocking the doors once more as the golems inside kill off the stray illagers. Guy and Summer regroup, with the former saying that he would need to destroy the pillager outpost. Summer corrects him to say that they should destroy it, but Guy insists on going alone as the village would be defenseless without Summer staying behind. Summer insists that she should go as she believes that she is the better fighter, and although Guy agrees, he insists that she stays. A brief argument ensues, but Summer gives in and allows Guy to go alone as long as he has a proper plan. Summer gives information about the plan to him, and Guy repairs his shield, trades with Fletcher for arrows, and trades with Junior for food. He also gets some buckets of milk from Farmer and eats a suspicious stew out of curiosity, giving him Night Vision for a few seconds. He eats another one, which gives him Weakness for a few seconds. Guy then brews some potions with the food he acquired in Chemist’s house, making potions of Healing with melons, and Night Vision with carrots. Summer then returns with some potions that she had brewed, giving Guy two potions of Swiftness, a potion of Invisibility, a potion of Fire Resistance, and a potion of Slow Falling, suggesting that the latter should only be used when absolutely necessary. Guy then hands Summer the potions of Healing and Night Vision that he brewed, and she then gives him a clock, hoping that they can synchronize their actions. She hops that he’ll be at the tower and finish half of his stuff there by the middle of the afternoon, and then she will kill off the pillagers here at sundown. Guy then leaves, swimming in the river to avoid being hit, and then breaks the surface, chugging down a potion of Swiftness to head to the pillager outpost.

=== Chapter 19 ===

Guy races eastward toward the pillager outpost, noticing the several pillagers surrounding it. He chugs down a potion of Night Vision so he can see clearly, followed by a potion of Invisibility so he can’t be seen by the pillagers. Guy sneaks around the pillagers and uses his axe to free the imprisoned iron golem, but a pillager notices it and shoots him. Guy is able to get away before being hit further as the pillagers focus on the golem. Guy then gets to work crafting TNT, and places the TNT on the spiral staircase while avoiding the pillagers. Guy eventually blows up the outpost, but the feeling of the curse still lingers in him as he heads back to the village. He notices the wall to the village has been breached, and ends up being chased by a vex. Upon heading inside the boundaries of the village, Guy exclaims to Summer that the pillager outpost is gone, and Summer exclaims that it didn’t work. Guy then asks as to what happened to the wall.

=== Chapter 20 ===

Switching to Summer’s POV, she recalls the events that occurred while Guy was heading toward the pillager outpost, taking her place on the northern wall of the village and firing at any illager that she could see. She finds a witch around the east wall and hits it with an enchanted Flame arrow, and then throws a potion of Poison, but it doesn’t break. She dashes back to the trading post to get some gunpowder, and then brews it with the Poison potion to make it a splash potion, heading back up to where she was and hitting the witch with it, followed by a barrage of flaming arrows to kill it. Summer then ducks behind the wall to recharge with some rabbit stew, and then kills off the remaining illagers just as the clock strikes midnight, and just as Guy blows up the pillager outpost. However, another horn sounds, and Summer rushes to the south wall, noticing several witches, vindicators, a ravager, and two evokers. Summer does the best that she can to fend them off, but is knocked off the wall by a vex. Phantoms then appear to attack her as a creeper blows a hole in the wall, causing the illagers to charge into the village. Summer shouts at the villagers to get into their houses, but they don’t listen. Guy then appears as Summer shouts as him about the plan not working, and it switches back to Guy’s POV, blocking the hole with one row of cobblestone. A zombie then attacks him, and he raises his sword to attack it, but is shocked to see that it was Smith that was turned into a zombie villager. Guy has Smith follow him to avoid being attacked by an iron golem. A phantom then attacks Guy, but he fends it off alongside a ravager. Guy and Summer then kill off an evoker, which drops a totem of undying. A witch then attacks the two with potions of poison, and Guy drinks milk to get rid of the effect. He realizes just a moment after that it also removed the curse that he had, and they fight off the remaining illagers. Guy gets attacked by another vex and is seemingly killed, but the totem of undying protects him from death. The vex is then killed, and the villagers celebrate with fireworks, making Guy and Summer realize that they have won.

=== Epilogue ===

Two months have passed since the raid, and Guy feels guilty about destroying the pillager outpost, so he proceeds to rebuild it while Summer distracts the remaining illagers. Back at the village, Guy heals Smith with a golden apple and a splash potion of Weakness. Guy and Summer then buy some ender pearls and craft an eye of ender. They throw it the following day, and it heads back in the direction they came from. They suspect that the end portal might be back at Summer’s mountain or on Guy’s island, and they both agree that they feel like they are heading in the right direction.

[[Category:Minecraft: The Village chapters]]