<noinclude>{{fiction|third|chapter|Minecraft: The Shipwreck}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 15: Jake ===

Jake asks as to why his farm is messed up, and Tank mentions that the wheat and potato plants aren’t close enough to the water. Tank then turns on the computer next to Jake and loads up his Minecraft world from a server, determined to show Jake how to properly make a farm. Emily then joins the two, turning on the computer next to them and launching Minecraft. She asks if they want to start a new world, but Jake mentions the server on the local network, named "Bella Beta 7". Emily then leaves, but comes back immediately with a notebook she found in the office, filled with information about Minecraft. She then joins the server and heads toward a forest biome. Tank also joins the server, gathering wood and crafting some tools. Jake then questions Emily as to why she isn’t gathering stuff for the first night, and she mentions that she is in a cave. Emily gets in a tussle with a few skeletons, barely making it out alive, and soon has an iron pickaxe. Tank begins making a wheat farm, and also makes a bed, falling asleep immediately. Jake is also in a bed, asking Emily to disconnect so they can skip to morning. Emily refuses as she finds a vein of iron ore. Tank then leaves his bed, making a fence around his wheat farm. Jake soon leaves his bed as well, leaving his hideout and heading towards Tank’s location. Jake eventually arrives at Tank’s base, being chased by zombies. Jake suggest that they should sleep, but Emily refuses once again. Jake and Tank then head down a hallway leading downward toward a cave. Jake asks Emily for her coordinates, and mines out some iron ore. Tank gets in a tussle with a spider, but Jake assists him in killing it. Eventually, the three meet up in a ravine.

=== Chapter 16: Emily ===

Emily kills multiple skeletons, but her iron pickaxe soon breaks. Jake gives Emily some logs, and soon after, she has a new set of tools, getting right back to work. Jake then mentions the village that a player had expanded, and the three (Jake, Tank, and Emily) agree to head to it. Jake then mentions about mermaids, and the three agree that the server is modded in some way. Eventually, they make it to the village, and also stumble upon the shipwreck that Jake had found some time ago. The three then dive toward the shipwreck. Emily and Jake find the mermaid and swim after it. Tank gets a screenshot of the mermaid and swims up to the surface to avoid dying from drowning, but Emily and Jake soon die from drowning. Emily respawns back where she started, while Jake spawns back in his dirt hideout. Just then, the door to the computer lab slowly opens, revealing Ellen Jenkins. Emily is seen putting some keyboards into a box, while Jake is seen dusting a computer monitor. Jake then shows Ellen the work they had done in another room while mouthing at Tank and Emily to turn off the computers. They do so and follow Jake and Ellen. Ellen mentions that the three did a good job for their first day and mentions that some of the stuff can be moved to her apartment by the end of the week. Ellen then leaves as Emily notices a folder of news article clippings on top of a box of photo frames. Tank and Jake help Emily with sorting through the clippings, and then they head back to their apartments for the night.

=== Chapter 17: Tank ===

The next day, Tank notices Shark waiting at the bottom of the stairwell, who questions Tank as to why they aren’t hanging out. Tank mentions the community service he has to do, and Shark decides to tell A.J. and Gus that Tank is in juvenile detention. Tank then meets Jake and Emily at the community center, where the latter two are already working. Emily is wearing a mask with flowers that Jake bought for her, which is almost identical to the one that Tank has. The three work on a room for a little while whilst listening to music, and Tank asks Jake about the riddles on the Minecraft server. Jake mentions that he feels like it’ll lead them to an underwater city, and excitedly heads over to the computer lab, with Tank and Emily following close behind. The three clean out the computer lab, putting the unused keyboards and computers into boxes, stuffing them by a corner of the room. They then turn on the three computers they had used yesterday, loading Minecraft and joining the server. The three make it to a small house of dirt, waiting out the night. Tank, who brought some instant ramen from his apartment, shares some with Jake and Emily. As the sun rises in-game, the three notice a mural in the distance, being a huge swath of wall outside a village. They climb up a mountain, revealing the mural to be the underwater city. Jake then heads off to his base just to the east of the city, with Tank and Emily following close behind. As Jake and Emily mine for ore, Tank fixes up the farm. Jake then shows Tank and Emily a brewing stand and enchanting table that is inside the base, with the latter surrounded by bookshelves, making it give off a "miasma of purple dust".

=== Chapter 18: Jake ===

Jake then stumbles upon a campfire set up by Emily, scolding her about it. She explains that she didn’t have the materials to craft a furnace, but Tank mentions that there are furnaces in another room. Just then, Jake’s stomach growls, realizing that he is hungry, and heads back to his apartment to retrieve lasagna for himself, Tank, and Emily. As they eat in the kitchen, Emily asks about the punishment that she, Tank, and Jake had gotten for stumbling into the closed-off community center. Emily mentions that she is now allowed to use her phone. Tank mentions that nobody in his family will know about it. Jake mentions that his father thinks the community service is a good thing. Emily asks about how Jake’s mother would react, but Jake responds that his mother died three years ago. Tank then mentions that his grandfather had died last year, who had taught him to play cards. The three then eat in silence for a while. After they eat, Emily and Tank thank Jake for the lunch while saying that they can bring lunch sometime as well, such as tamales or pizza. Seeing as they are already in the kitchen, they decide to clean it up, throwing away tons of dirty cookware. Tank stumbles upon a box of Twinkies, and the three eat them cautiously. As they head back to the computer lab, they prepare to head to the Nether to make a brewing stand for potions of water breathing, but soon, Jake’s phone buzzes with a text from his father saying that dinner is ready. The three do a fist bump and depart to their apartments for the night.

=== Chapter 19: Tank ===

The next morning, Jake, Tank, and Emily stumble upon a journal created by Bella, filled with mermaids, fish, dolphins, and sea monsters. Emily decides to put it in the box with the photos for later. The three clean out rooms throughout the morning, only deciding to continue playing Minecraft that afternoon. The three are ready to head to the Nether, but Tank feels nervous about it at first. He eventually feels confident, and the three head down to a Nether portal that Emily had made in one of her mining shafts. Emily lights it, and the three are soon in the Nether. Emily is already heading toward a nether fortress, with Jake and Tank following close behind. Tank is hesitant on attacking the zombified piglins, but is warned by Jake that if he attacks them, they’ll be surrounded. The three eventually arrive at a nether fortress.

=== Chapter 20: Emily ===

The three soon stumble upon blazes, but kill them with ease, eventually obtaining some blaze rods. Jake then finds some nether wart, but soon dies from being submerged in lava. Emily then gives Tank the nether wart. Tank starts running back toward the nether portal while Emily attacks some blazes, eventually dying to one. Jake then notices Ellen heading toward the community center from the courtyard. Tank tries to quit the game, but the escape key on his keyboard is stuck. Emily then leaves the computer lab to distract Ellen for a bit.

=== Chapter 21: Tank ===

As Tank heads toward the nether portal, Jake stumbles around the computer lab, trying to find a pen. He is able to find one, and wedges it under the escape key. Just then, the key pops off the keyboard, but Tank is able to make it back to the Overworld. He minimizes the game while Jake mutes the computer just at Emily and Ellen walk into the computer lab. Ellen brought the three some tomato sandwiches to eat, however she mentions that she feels like the three are responsible enough to get their own lunch as long as they are working. Ellen then sits down by the working computers, with Tank mentioning that they were checking to make sure that they were working. Ellen mentions that everything in the computer lab can be boxed up and donated and soon leaves the lab. Jake, Emily, and Tank then resume playing Minecraft.