<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 7 ===

Bobbie and Avery were immediately surrounded by zombies. The two then attempt to head upstairs, but Avery slips from Bobbie’s grip and is soon turned into a zombie villager. Bobbie then punches out the stained glass in a panic and dives onto the roof of the temple; she soon realizes that Avery must’ve been bitten by a zombie when they had been surrounded. Although the storm is now gone, Bobbie notices the zombie horde had broken into another building, so she decides to take action. Bobbie carefully makes it to the weaponsmith’s shop, where a fresh iron sword was sitting atop the anvil. She then carefully makes it back to her home, deciding to use the sword to get inside the house from the back instead of using the front door. The house was already ruined with furniture overturned, broken pictures, and the door to the house being nothing but splinters. Bobbie then hears Haven screaming and sees her trembling as zombies close in on her. Acting quickly, Bobbie slashes several zombies with the iron sword before pulling Haven free from the zombies. Bobbie begins to lead Haven back toward the house, but Haven gestures her to head to the library instead, which is the only building with an iron door. Bobbie had originally placed the iron door as a way to keep Johnny out of it, but noticing that the pressure plate inside would open the door, she decides to use the sword again to get in from the back. Although the other villagers protest this, Bobbie quickly patches up the hole as she hears the cheers of Johnny, much to her relief. A villager then suggests that Bobbie dig a tunnel out of town, but she refuses, stating that they would be safer here and that there might be other survivors. The villagers begin to argue before they are interrupted by something banging the iron door. Bobbie then says that she’ll carve out a basement and gets to work, but the first block she breaks reveals light underground, followed by "a dark, fast-moving shape" flying upward into the library. The villagers panic, and despite Bobbie saying that it was just a bat, Briar steps upon the pressure plate that opens the iron door amidst the panic. Bobbie quickly slashes at the zombie that had appeared before slamming the iron door shut, but by then, the zombie had already bitten Briar, who quickly turns into a zombie villager. The zombie villager lunges at Bobbie, but Johnny leaps in-between them and gets himself bitten instead. Bobbie then grabs Johnny and cradles him near the back of the library and hopes that everything is going to be okay, but Johnny’s eyes turn red.

=== Chapter 8 ===

Bobbie felt like she was in a nightmare as Johnny lunges for her, but Bobbie quickly places down wood planks in front of her, followed by making a pillar of wood around Johnny just high enough so he wouldn’t be able to climb out. The rest of the villagers had already turned into zombie villagers thanks to Briar being turned into one, so Bobbie decides to duck in-between two long bookshelves and blocks off both sides with wood planks, giving her a very brief sense of relief. She slumps to the ground and hopes to fall asleep, but she doesn’t thanks to the sounds of the zombies.

=== Chapter 9 ===

By morning, all of the zombie villagers inside the library had succumbed to the sunlight that engulfed them, except for Johnny, who was still enclosed in the pillar that Bobbie had made. She feels like it would be cruel to leave Johnny enclosed in there, so she blocks off the windows, moves a lantern nearby for light, and then opens up one side of the enclosure. Johnny lunges for Bobbie immediately, causing her to shove him back into the enclosure and close it up once more. Bobbie then decides to head outside and inspect the damage, noticing the remains of Goalie nearby, and every structure in Plaintown basically destroyed. Despite this, she still has hope that she could cure her brother. Over the next few days, Bobbie would experiment with teaching Johnny not to eat her. She first tried placing food in separate corners, but that didn’t work. She then tried using different items such as honeycomb, sugar cane, and emeralds, but those didn’t work either. One day, Bobbie notices Johnny gnawing at a bone and asks him as to where he got it. Johnny can only growl at her as he keeps the bone to himself, with Bobbie feeling content on him using it as a sort of pacifier. One morning, Bobbie decides to throw the bone outside for Johnny to fetch. He does so, but immediately bursts into flames. Bobbie quickly dowses him with a bucket of water before attaching a lead on him and then attaching the lead to a fence that she had set up in the library. Although Johnny now has a bit more freedom to move around, Bobbie stays out of his range so she doesn’t get bitten. Johnny then holds out his arms for a hug, but lunged forward and attempts to bite Bobbie, who pats him on the head, still hoping to find a way to cure him.

=== Chapter 10 ===

Ben cautiously approaches Plaintown, which had now turned into an abandoned village. Despite this, Ben finds that the farms were full of food to replenish himself, but the chests had already been emptied, much to his dismay. Eventually Ben comes across the building with the iron door. He first peers through the iron door, but finds nothing, and then notices the pressure plate beside the door. Curiosity gets the better of Ben as he steps on the pressure plate and then heads inside, realizing the building once was a library. Ben then hears footsteps in the back of the room and asks about the mess, only to be responded to with a low growl. Peering around the bookshelf, Ben realizes that the growl belonged to a zombie and scrabbles backward, closing his eyes as he braces for the zombie to attack him, but nothing happens. Slowly opening his eyes, Ben realizes that it was actually a baby zombie which was tied to a fence. Ben laughs at it and then raises his sword, ready to kill it. Bobbie then shouts at Ben to stop, with a bow drawn at him. Ben turns around, noticing Bobbie with her bow drawn and wearing an iron helmet and a pair of boots, and says to her that he’ll take care of the baby zombie. He raises his sword again just before Bobbie shoots him in his chestplate with an arrow. Bobbie immediately apologizes, but Ben reassures her that that thing is a zombie. Bobbie then says that it is a zombie, but is also her brother, and asks Ben to put his sword away so she can tell him about it.

=== Chapter 11 ===

Bobbie does tell Ben everything that happened up til now, and Ben apologizes, saying that he can’t imagine how it would feel to lose a village. Bobbie then says that it feels bad before the two decide to chat in the now-abandoned temple. Ben picks up a stray book and reads the recipes that were inside of it. Bobbie then asks as to what he is doing here, and Ben says that he is doing "the usual", which is a term he uses for resupplying himself at a village. Bobbie thinks that Ben is an adventurer, not just based on his actions, but also because Bobbie thinks that adventurers think that villages are "happy little idiots" who exist to make their lives easier. After some brief discussion about their lives and actions, Bobbie mentions that the book that Ben is reading is about potion formulas and shows him a potion that had been made in a brewing stand. Bobbie then says that she is looking for a cure for Johnny as Ben says that clerics are generally good with potions. Bobbie perks up at that remark, and Ben says that he knows of another cleric in Savannaton, a village not far away from Plaintown. Bobbie wonders as to how to get there, but Ben reiterates that they have to think about food and shelter before making the journey. Bobbie then says to Ben that she can pay him in emeralds if he takes her to Savannaton and back, and although Ben loves emeralds, he tries his best not to show it. Ben accepts the offer, and Bobbie decides to bring Johnny along. Ben objects at first, but decides to allow him to come along as long as the lead attached to him is short so he doesn’t get bitten.

=== Chapter 12 ===

Bobbie carefully takes Johnny, who is gnawing on a bone, out of the library. Ben then explains to her that he cloned a map from the cartographer’s house to be used as a locator map so they are able to get back to Plaintown quickly. Realizing that Johnny is a baby zombie, they decide to travel underground during the day and above ground at night. Ben then mentions to Bobbie not to dig straight down as she would never know what’s directly beneath her feet and asks if she had grabbed everything that would be useful. Bobbie mentions that every chest in Plaintown was ransacked before Ben asks if she has the emeralds. Bobbie then says that she hid them where they wouldn’t be found, waves one in front of his face, and then promises that he’ll be paid. As for gear, Ben and Bobbie both have a bow, but with only five arrows between them. Both also have one sword and pickaxe each, and would soon need to be replaced or upgraded. Ben is wearing an iron chestplate and leather boots (the latter so he doesn’t get bitten by Johnny) while Bobbie is wearing an iron helmet. The three then head over to the lone poppy in town to pay their respects to Goalie before Ben is struck from behind. At first he thinks that Johnny had bit him, but looking up at the sky reveals phantoms. Ben then asks Bobbie as to when she had slept last, and Bobbie says that she was so busy taking care of Johnny that she had lost track of time. The two have no choice but to dig straight down, and they soon fall into a mineshaft. After patching the hole they had made with dirt, the two start heading north. Ben then apologizes to Bobbie for cutting her goodbyes short, but she doesn’t mind, and is instead hopeful that they’ll be back in Plaintown soon. Ben then says that they’ll be back before they know it, doing his best to keep a sense of doubt out of his voice.