<noinclude>{{fiction|first six|chapter|Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles/Night of the Bats!|plural=1}}</noinclude>

=== Prologue: It’s Always Darkest During the Flashback Because That’s Also When the Zombies Attack! ===

Six figures stand together as a group of hostile mobs approach them. Five of the figures are people, while the sixth is of an [[iron golem]] that they had made.

=== Chapter 1: Bats, Part One: Are They Friends, Foes, or Classmates? ===

[[Ash Kapoor]] listens for her name carefully as attendance is taken in Ms. Minerva’s classroom. Her name is then called, responding with a simple "Here." As Ash is marked as present, she hears a shuffling sound, followed by a metallic clanging sound, coming from the air vent. [[Jodi]] soon notices the sounds as well and wonders as to what it could be. Just then, as [[Doc Culpepper]] enters the room to warn everybody about something, a swarm of [[Bat (Woodsword Chronicles)|bats]] enters the classroom through the air vent. The entire class, including the pet hamster, [[Baron Sweetcheeks]], who is in his cage, is evacuated into the hallway, with Ms. Minerva slamming the classroom door shut. Doc Culpepper apologizes, saying that she was coming to warn Ms. Minerva about the bats. Ms. Minerva wonders if the bats were one of Doc Culpepper’s projects, but Doc insists that they weren’t, saying that she had been following the sounds throughout the school all morning. Ms. Minerva has the class go sit on the bleachers outside, while Doc Culpepper has Ash, [[Harper Houston|Harper]], Po, [[Morgan]], Jodi, and Baron Sweetcheeks meet up in the computer lab.

=== Chapter 2: It’s All Fun and Games Until Someone Steals Your Super-Secret VR Portal Technology. ===

Entering the computer lab, Doc Culpepper immediately points out that there are only five [[VR goggles]] hanging on the wall when there are supposed to be six of them. Nonetheless, she also takes Baron Sweetcheeks and places him down on a nearby table noting that it’s a temporary home until the bat problem is solved. Jodi wonders if the bats will end up biting them and drink their blood, but Doc says that it’s a common misconception. Doc then asks if anyone had seen anything strange happen when they had been playing ''[[Minecraft]]''. Morgan thinks about mentioning the message they they had seen when they last played, but instead says that although they had noticed some weird stuff, they had barely started playing. Doc says that she looks forward to their report as she leaves to take care of the bat situation. The five (Ash, Harper, Po, Morgan, and Jodi) then head for the bleachers, knowing that they’ll be back in the computer lab after school.

Po soon realizes that he’ll be late due to basketball practice, and is also worried about the bats because he believes they showed up right after they started playing. As Harper and Po have a light argument about it, Morgan daydreams about Po’s theory, wondering if anything or anybody else could’ve escaped into the real world.

=== Chapter 3: When Adventure Calls, Answer! Adventure Won’t Leave You a Voice Mail. ===

After school, in the computer lab, Jodi, Harper, Morgan, and Ash don their VR goggles. Jodi begins working on a few sculptures completely made out of [[cobblestone]], such as an obelisk and a giant floating cube. She then starts working on a floating staircase as Morgan mentions about going after the [[Evoker King]], worried that it might be the person who stole the pair of VR goggles from the computer lab. Po joins them soon after as basketball practice was cancelled; he is seen using a [[shepherd]] [[skin]]. Po then mentions that he dyed [[Beau]] and [[Beep]] to tell them apart; Beau is yellow, and Beep is blue. All five then vote unanimously to go after the Evoker King.

=== Chapter 4: Every Journey Starts with a Single Step. Every Step Starts with an Electric Impulse in Your Brain! ===

The narrator mentions that Harper has learned to take things apart when she was younger, learning how things worked. She took apart stuff such as a toaster and an old TV (of course, with adult supervision) by the time she had gone through elementary school. Her father works as a sculptor while her mother works as a painter. Back in ''Minecraft'', Harper decides to craft a compass so she and her friends will be able to find their way back to the castle when needed. They then gather food and supplies that they need, plus some iron swords that Harper had crafted, and begin heading north toward the obsidian letters, then heading west toward some [[mountains]]. Climbing them, they find some apples in the trees and also tame a llama. As the [[sun]] sets, everyone takes shelter in a [[cave]], with Morgan using an [[iron pickaxe]] to get some coal for torches while Ash checks on Jodi and Po. As he mines away at the coal, he notices [[emerald ore]] and mines at it to obtain an [[emerald]]. Ash then informs Harper and Morgan that Jodi and Po found something, heading over to them to find out that they saw a [[village]] in the valley just beyond the mountain, realizing that they aren’t alone.

=== Chapter 5: Bats, Part Two: What’s Their Favorite Subject? And Do They Have Plans for the Weekend? ===

Back in the real world, Ms. Minerva’s class has a pop quiz on {{Wikipedia|A Midsummer Night’s Dream}} by {{Wikipedia|William Shakespeare}}. Po didn’t seem to mind about it because he loves anything to do with Shakespeare, but he couldn’t stop thinking about the village that they had discovered in ''Minecraft''. Speaking of Minecraft, Po always loves to change his in-game skin, making it feel like being someone else. As basketball practice was cancelled, Po began to wonder if he should try out for the school play. Later on, in Doc Culpepper’s science class, they begin to learn more about bats, such as how echolocation works, and why bats are nocturnal. The class begins to wonder as to where the bats came from, as they are normally found in caves or trees. Jodi has a theory in mind that the bats were actually created by Doc in a laboratory hidden in the basement, while Po’s theory believes that the bats may have come from ''Minecraft''. Po questions as to why bats would end up living in the school gym, and Doc says that she hopes everyone will do research in their spare time. A pop quiz is then taken, with Po wondering if her theory about Doc being a mad scientist was actually true after all.

=== Chapter 6: Villagers Want Your Emeralds, Not Your Jokes. ===

Back in Minecraft, the five (Harper, Morgan, Jodi, Po, and Ash) begin to heard toward the village, with Po using a clown skin. All of the villagers are wearing [[plain]]-colored robes, making them realize that either this version of Minecraft isn’t running the latest update, or is just a glitch. They then soon realizes that the villagers can trade using emeralds as currency, but decide not to do so without consulting everyone first. Not before long, the sun begins to set as the villagers begin heading into their houses. The group then hurry to get back to their beds on the other side of the mountain, but soon notice several hostile mobs heading toward the village.