<noinclude>{{fiction|first|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 1 ===

[[Bobbie]] lives with her parents and her baby brother, [[Johnny (character)|Johnny]], in the village of [[Plaintown]]. One night, as she is finishing chores, Bobbie looks out the window and notices a figure moving strangely around the village. She immediately thinks that it might be a [[zombie]], but the figure begins to sway around as if Johnny was taking his first steps. As the figure drops to the ground right by a [[torch]], Bobbie realizes that the figure is a young boy and rushes outside to help him despite the objections of her parents. Bobbie asks the young boy if he can hear him, and the boy responds with one word: poison. She immediately brings the young boy over to [[Avery]], the [[cleric]] of the village, to examine him. Avery honks as Bobbie realizes that the young boy was under the [[Wither (effect)|wither]] effect. She then asks if there is a cure, and Avery honks that it can only be cured with milk. Bobbie then rushes out toward the northern part of Plaintown to milk the [[cow]], named [[Daisy]]. After getting the bucket filled with milk, Bobbie rushes back to Avery, who forces the young boy to drink the milk directly from the bucket. Bobbie then asks if the young boy will be alright, and Avery grumbles that he needs rest. Bobbie understands that she needs to leave, and so she does, thanking Avery for her help. As Bobbie headed back home, she felt a rush of pride and satisfaction for having a complete outsider get help in the village, but little did she know that the young boy would end up bringing trouble.

=== Chapter 2 ===

Bobbie would sometimes despise other people, known as adventurers. Adventurers are described as people with no permanent home and no real responsibilities, wandering from place to place and breaking stuff to avoid a few extra steps. The next morning, Bobbie helps [[Ellis]], the [[shepherd]] [[villager]], fix a [[fence]] that had been broken with an oak one that she had crafted. Bobbie then promises to Ellis that she’ll help find the sheep and bring them back to Ellis' pen as she leaves to greet the other villagers at [[Heart Oak]], the center of the village. Bobbie checks on Avery and asks as to where the young boy went. Avery hunks and gestures as if he were agitated, making Bobbie realize that the young boy had left; she picks up the stack of [[dirt]] that he had left behind. Bobbie then greets [[Lee (Zombies!)|Lee]], the [[fletcher]] villager, and [[Bradley]], the [[mason]] villager, before heading to the house that belonged to [[Haven]], the [[cartographer]] villager. Bobbie says that she is there to check if Haven is okay with supplies. Though nobody answers the door, she decides to head inside anyway, looking around the room and eventually fixing her gaze toward a large [[map]] on the wall. Bobbie is so affixed to the map that she barely hears a shuffling sound, followed by the sound of someone breathing. Bobbie then asks if anyone if there before a figure lunges at her from a bookshelf. Bobbie stumbles and lands flat on the floor as the figure hugs her, making Bobbie realize that it was Johnny. The two engage in a brief hug before Johnny starts climbing the desk. Bobbie then asks Johnny if he would like to be a cartographer once he grows up, but Johnny is much more focused on his own two feet. Bobbie loved to imagine what Johnny might be once he grows up as Johnny himself jumps around in front of the map. Haven then appears and shoos both of them out of the house, with Bobbie giving a quick apology before slamming the door in their faces. Bobbie asks Johnny if their parents know where he is before he wanders off. Johnny has a habit for wandering off; at one point, he was found in a [[cauldron]] that belonged to [[Shane]], the [[leatherworker]] villager. Johnny eventually bumps into [[Goalie]], Plaintown’s [[iron golem]], before running off toward home. Bobbie then finds Ellis' [[sheep]], named [[Bo]] and [[Peep]], at a small pond just outside of Plaintown, but decides to stay with them for a minute as she takes a gander at the village. Bobbie then says to the sheep that Plaintown is safe and that nothing would ever change until she interrupts herself and notices the tree at the center of the village engulfed in flames.

=== Chapter 3 ===

Bobbie quickly heads back to Plaintown and wonders as to what to do. She then realizes that she has the stack of dirt that the young boy had left behind and makes a barrier between the fire and the many houses that surrounded it. Bobbie then asks Avery if Johnny is safe, and Avery honks as he ganders at Goalie, with Johnny sitting atop its shoulder. The other villagers stand shoulder to shoulder with Bobbie silently as the fire eventually dies out, knowing that the tree that once was in Heart Oak is now gone. Just then, the silence is broken when a stranger comments that the fire was "epic" and more dramatic than they expected. Bobbie immediately realizes that it was the voice of the young boy that they had saved the night before, and asks as to what he is doing. The young boy then asks Bobbie if she is "some kind of mutant [[nitwit]]" before saying that she doesn’t look like how a villager would normally look and acts like she lives here. Bobbie replies that she does live here and then asks the young boy if he had anything to do with the fire, and the young boy immediately confesses that he had started it, stating that he thought he could get some charcoal from burning wood. The young boy then says that he plans to loot some [[chests]], shear some sheep, and kill Goalie (in which he calls Bobbie a freak for naming it) before leaving. Bobbie then asks the young boy to leave the village immediately, but he refuses at first and pulls out his [[diamond sword]], much to Bobbie’s shock. Just then, Goalie leaps forward smashes one of its arms into the boy, making him stumble to the ground. Bobbie pleads with Goalie not to hurt him before the young boy says that he is leaving, rudely "apologizing" for being how he was.

=== Chapter 4 ===

Not far away from Plaintown and deep underground is [[Ben]], an "aspiring hero". He quickly calls out for Logan, his friend, but there is no answer. Going through his chest for supplies, Ben quickly realizes that he and Logan had been robbed of their [[ores]], [[potions]], [[arrows]], [[tipped arrows]], a [[diamond pickaxe]], an enchanted [[sword]], and a stack of [[emeralds]]. Ben then calls out for Logan again, but he hears the hissing of a [[creeper]], sending his nerves on edge. Ben peers around the corner as he draws his sword and swings at the creeper before it explodes, throwing Ben off his feet before falling a short distance down a cave. He gets up and decides to head back up to the torches that had been placed the day before and retraces his steps, hoping to reunite with Logan and prove to him that he can be a hero.

=== Chapter 5 ===

Back in Plaintown, it had been weeks since  the young boy burned the tree at Heart Oak. Bobbie had already planted four [[saplings]] in the area where the tree once stood, had already removed the makeshift dirt barrier, and now starts her mornings by checking Heart Oak to see if any trouble brewed up. One day, as Bobbie gives a pep talk to the saplings, [[Briar]], the [[farmer]] villager, honks at her about getting [[bonemeal]]. Bobbie wonders as to how to get it, hoping that she wouldn’t have to fight a [[skeleton]], but Ellis chimes in to agree with Briar. Bobbie says that she’ll keep that in mind. Later, a [[thunderstorm]] starts to appear over Plaintown. As rain begins to fall, the villagers rush to finish their tasks. Lighting soon appears as Bobbie makes it home just before the drizzle becomes a downpour of rain. Her parents offer her some soup, but she begins to wonder as to where Johnny is. Her parents honk that they don’t know, so Bobbie decides to find him herself in the pouring rain. It was getting darker, but a flash of lightning helped Bobbie notice a figure in her path; she asks as to who it is before the figure’s head snaps up, revealing a zombie. Bobbie spins on her heels and runs away from the zombie, but another one appears right in front of her, so she ducks into an alleyway. Another flash of lightning reveals a horde of zombies, making Bobbie realize that the village is under attack from a zombie siege. She screams, but the thunder masks the sound of it. She then realizes that she needs to raise the alarm somehow, and notices a [[bell]] nearby. Unfortunately, four zombies are in-between her and the bell, so she decides to go for the next best thing: [[chickens]].

=== Chapter 6 ===

Bobbie decides to destroy the torches around the village before carefully heading over to the north end of the village, where the chicken enclosure was. Two chickens, named [[Sally]] and [[Sue]], respectively, lived there. Bobbie takes an [[egg]] that had just been laid from the enclosure, and then positions herself so she is able to throw the egg at the bell. The egg does hit the bell, causing the bell to clang, but one of the zombies noticed the egg as it was being thrown, and stumbles toward her. The entire zombie horde then notices Bobbie, who tries to escape, but is soon engulfed by them. She lets out a scream just before Goalie comes to her aid, but the zombies began to overpower Goalie as it began to crack. Bobbie uses her [[axe]] to attack a zombie, but it shatters instantly. As she searches her inventory for another weapon, she is sent flying by Goalie, landing at the door of the temple in the village. Goalie is eventually overpowered and dies from the zombie siege before the zombies once again lock eyes on Bobbie, who throws herself against the temple door, opening it and then slamming it shut as she heads inside. Bobbie then hears footsteps and instinctively lashes out, but quickly realizes that the figure in the temple is Avery, who honks if Bobbie is okay. Bobbie says that she is, but also says that the zombies killed Goalie, much to Avery’s disappointment. Just then, the door to the temple shatters as zombies storm inside it.