=== Chapter 29 ===

By dawn, the group spot some more wither roses, with Logan mentioning that Paulie was right about the wither passing through this area. Bobbie adds that each wither rose they find makes her more determined to stop it, and Benjamin asks as to what will their plan be for when they catch up to it. Ben says that they’ll have a lot of time to discuss it before heading there. Logan smirks to himself, saying to himself that the rest of the group aren’t good at choosing their allies, thinking that it would come to haunt them in the end.

=== Chapter 30 ===

Bobbie loses track of the days and nights that they have spent walking, stopping to rest from time to time to avoid attracting phantoms. One day, as the group continues to walk, Benjamin suggests to her to cure Johnny, noting that things would be getting dangerous from here on out. Bobbie appears to agree, but says that it doesn’t feel right to force him to do so, adding that she likes having Johnny where she can see him. Later that night, as the group make a shelter for the night, Benjamin pulls Bobbie aside, showing her a helmet that he had made for Johnny, adding that he knows how much Johnny hates the pumpkin and that the helmet will keep him safe in the sunlight as well as provide protection for him. Bobbie thanks Benjamin for the thoughtful gesture, and he adds that she should put the helmet on Johnny sooner rather than later before falling asleep for the night.

The next morning, Johnny is wearing his new helmet while Bobbie places the pumpkin into her inventory. As the group continue to walk along, they notice the terrain is getting higher, with the trail of wither roses directly in-between two sheer cliffs. Benjamin then sheepishly remarks that they shouldn’t go that way despite Bobbie pointing out the wither roses. He then says that this place is perfect for an ambush just before Bobbie is hit in the back with a splash potion of Poison. Just then, Kyro, Diamond Jubilee, and Major Miner, the Overworld Overlords, appear, saying that someone was used as a spy to restore their armor. At first, Bobbie thinks that it was Logan, but he too was also hit with a splash potion of Poison. Johnny is then seen tied to a fence post. Bobbie then notices that Benjamin was the only one that was unaffected, and he says that the Overworld Overlords made him an offer that he couldn’t refuse.

=== Chapter 31 ===

Logan exclaims to Benjamin that he is making a mistake, and Diamond Jubilee interjects by saying that the group aren’t that much of a threat without their gear. The Overworld Overlords had taken everything from them: their armor, weapons, and potions, as well as smaller items like coal, sticks, and feathers. Logan, Ben, and Bobbie are now back to how they started off. Logan clarifies that the Overlords making a mistake was having Benjamin team up with them instead of him, which leads to Benjamin saying that it was indeed the Overlords that recruited him, adding that the Overlords shouldn’t trust Logan as he is a manipulator. He then adds that he did this to get away from Logan and join the group that refused to make Logan a member. Ben then says to Benjamin that he should’ve talked about this with the group first, but Benjamin doubts that it would’ve worked out, adding that Ben and Bobbie aren’t the great heroes that they seek to be. After some more discussion about the nether star and the wither, Bobbie lashes out, saying that she doesn’t care about who is working with whom, adding that she doesn’t trust anyone anymore and refuses to waste time with people that don’t deserve to be adventurers. She then rushes over to Johnny, unties him from the fence post, and then storms off into a nearby forest, with Ben following close behind. Benjamin gives Ben a golden apple before the latter walks into the forest.

=== Chapter 32 ===

Ben asks Bobbie as to where she is going, and she says that she is heading home, having had enough of the egos of adventurers. Ben sheepishly asks if that includes him, but Bobbie says that she had failed her mission. Ben then suggests that they start over, knowing that they can make more golden apples by finding the necessary resources, but Bobbie admits that it would be too late by the time they did that, adding that with Johnny cured, along with the other cured villagers, that Plaintown wouldn’t be as empty as it is right now. Ben disagrees, knowing that her village is thousands of blocks away, and once again says that they need to gather resources, but Bobbie says that she is tired of fighting. Logan then appears, asking if they need help, but Bobbie refuses at first, saying that he felt like he was ready to team up with Kyro as well. Logan then says that it was a plot to trick Kyro, and Ben asks about the nether star and why he never brought it up. Logan says that he was looking out for himself because of his anger issues, and the only reason why he keeps finding new people to be with is that he wants to be around people. Bobbie eventually gives in and decides to stay, and the three soon build a structure out of cobblestone to rest in. She is still interested in killing the wither despite the reduced circumstances, but Ben instead suggests to forget about it and focus on the zombie horde going after it. Bobbie asks why, and he says that they can work to entrap the horde and uses the golden apples and Weakness potions to cure the zombie villagers. They all then attempt to sleep, but Ben realizes that they only have enough wool for one bed. Bobbie smiles and says that she and him will get to work on mining and crafting instead.

=== Chapter 33 ===

Bobbie and Ben work through the night, mining out any raw iron they find, which they smelt into iron ingots for respective swords, shields, and helmets. Logan quips that he misses wearing diamond armor, knowing that it was taken when the Overworld Overlords had captured him, but he was able to keep his journal, a few saddles, and some other things that the Overlords hadn’t bothered to check. By morning, it had begun to rain, but the three decide to follow the path of wither roses anyway, only taking a detour once to gather some milk from cows in a clearing. Later that day, lightning begins to strike, causing Ben to suggest to travel underground, but Bobbie decides to go on for a bit more, as going underground, in her opinion, would slow them down. Just then, Ben notices a silhouette of someone on horseback in the distance, soon noticing that it is a skeleton horseman. Lightning then strikes the horse as Bobbie inches closer to it, spawning three other skeleton horseman. Fortunately, despite the group’s gear, they kill the skeletons with ease, but Ben begins to wonder as to how much time they lost, knowing that they need to catch up to the wither as quickly as possible. He then asks Bobbie if she had ever ridden a horse.

=== Chapter 34 ===

Back with Benjamin and the Overworld Overlords, the former thinks that he would finally prove himself to be an adventurer after they had snuck up on him one night to make an offer to join them. Yet still, the other members of the Overlords command him to do various tasks, much to Benjamin’s disappointment. He then asks the group if they plan on moving, but Diamond Jubilee says that they aren’t going anywhere and are instead going to have the Wither come to them at the village that they are occupying. Benjamin objects to the idea, but the others insist on doing so, so he storms off, effectively leaving the group. He leaves the village and climbs a high hill on the outskirts of it, noticing the wither and the zombie horde heading right for the village. With the potions of Regeneration, stray bits of armor he is wearing, and the netherite sword that previously belonged to Bobbie, Benjamin digs into the hill using Major Miner’s spare diamond pickaxe, making a tunnel that soon lands him as close to the wither as he can get. He is able to dodge some wither skulls, but the horde of zombies were soon upon him. Just as he is about to presumably die, he hears Bobbie call out his name.

=== Chapter 35 ===

Bobbie leaps from her horse as soon as she was close enough to Benjamin, swiping the zombies away with her shield. Ben then tosses some Regeneration potions at him, and he swigs one done quickly. Bobbie, Ben, and Benjamin try to regroup, with Benjamin mentioning that the village that the horde are going to attack is just over the hill that he came out of. Bobbie asks if he was out here along to try to save the village, and he agrees, adding that he was trying to do the right thing and make amends. Bobbie then says that they would need to lead the wither away from the village, just as the Overworld Overlords crest the hill to attack the wither.

[[Category:Minecraft: Zombies Unleashed! chapters]]