<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies Return!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 10 ===

Just as Bobbie grips her sword, she has a flashback to when Ben gave her combat lessons about using the sword properly. Then, just as Bobbie takes a step forward toward the pillager, an explosion rings out near the pillager outpost, leaving the pillager no choice but to retreat. Bobbie follows the pillager from a safe distance, only to watch as Logan easily dispatches two other pillagers with his diamond sword. Meanwhile, Other Ben is then seen running in a zig-zag pattern to avoid being hit by arrows; Logan seems to ignore him as he heads up the outpost instead. Bobbie then notices a pillager preparing to attack Other Ben, so she springs into action and attacks it, ultimately killing it and picking up the crossbow that was left behind. Bobbie then uses it on a pillager that was attacking Other Ben, ultimately assisting him into killing it. Other Ben then nods at Bobbie as a means of thanks before attempting to rejoin Logan inside the outpost. Bobbie considers knocking Logan off the outpost with a shot of the crossbow, but ultimately decides against it, believing that it would be too callous and cruel for her to do so. She then picks an apple off a nearby tree, but notices some cages out of the corner of her eye just as she was about to eat it; one of the cages houses "a small blue creature". Bobbie decides to free it by breaking down the walls of the cage with her pickaxe, and then decides to give the creature the uneaten apple, who accepts it and then flies off. Nonetheless, Bobbie understands that she still has a job to do, so she soon finds a new hiding spot to keep an eye on Logan, knowing that the pillager outpost basically now belongs to him.

=== Chapter 11 ===

Ben is seen hiding in the shelter that he had built, which was just a space that had been cut out of a hill. He wonders as to where he is as the sound of a zombie is heard, but feels anxious and impatient, so he starts to dig, only to reveal an empty space that was home to a bat, making Ben panic and leap backward through the door, only to be noticed by an enderman, which had instantly teleported behind him. Ben falls to his knees, waiting for the enderman to kill him, but another person comes by and kills it with an iron sword. The person then reveals himself to be Logan. Ben, who was actually asleep in the bed chamber at Fort Rot, then wakes up from what seemed to be a nightmare recollection of his first encounter with Logan, realizing that he had dozed off while reading Logan’s journal. Feeing curious, Ben decides to read more of his journal. Although Ben had thought that Logan would write in paragraphs, he had instead jotted down everything else from insults to lists to diagrams to doodles. The lists consisted of numerous things that Logan had disliked, and there was even a page that had listed the supposed numerous times that Ben had messed up on something. Skimming through the rest of the journal, Ben also notices diagrams for a zombie trap, an iron farm, and a lightning farm which is used to turn pigs into zombified piglins. Upon nearing the back of the book, Ben stumbles upon a to-do list, with three of the seven items already checked off. Unbeknownst to Ben, Logan had already conquered a pillager outpost, but Ben was more focused on warning some people who were named on that list: Pigstep Peggy and the people that are considered as the Overlords of the Overworld. Ben then recalls that he had earlier noticed a pigpen that was surrounded by lightning rods in the courtyard of the fortress, so he decides to hurry down there and attempt to remove them. He only ends up removing one before lightning strikes the second one that he was reaching for. Ben then shrieks in horror as the pig that was in the pigpen ends up turning into a zombified piglin, which ends up going in Fort Rot. Ben then grabs Johnny and the two decide to leave Fort Rot behind, not mattering which way they were going, as long as they didn’t want to stay there.

=== Chapter 12 ===

The blue creature that Bobbie had rescued earlier had returned to her, offering her an apple as a means of repayment. She then whispered to the creature to fly a bit lower to avoid giving away her hiding spot, which is currently crouching behind a shrub with a few dirt blocks to act as a wall. Logan and Other Ben are at the pillager outpost, discussing about getting it fortified before Logan notices that an allay (the blue creature) is missing from the cage. Other Ben calms him down by making an excuse that the cage must have been damaged during the battle with the pillagers, and the two then begin work on making fortifications to the pillager outpost. Bobbie then whispers to the allay, which she names Layla, about making a dent in their plans, and Layla chirps in agreement. Later, Bobbie hatches a plan and decides to dig a pit underneath a fenced area that is currently occupied by the horde of zombies, but is interrupted by Hatchet and Flip, who prepare to attack her.

=== Chapter 13 ===

Back with Ben, he crafts a boat, and he and Johnny, who is now wearing a pumpkin to protect him from the sun, row out into the ocean. The two the stumble upon a dolphin, and Ben mentions to Johnny that dolphins can lead people to treasure. With this in mind, Ben dons a turtle shell to use as a helmet, and then dives into the water to follow the dolphin.

=== Chapter 14 ===

Back with Bobbie, she decides to foil Hatchet and Flip’s plans by destroying the fence, releasing the horde of zombies onto them, and slips away while they are distracted, eventually digging a path with her diamond pickaxe, but goes back up to the surface after realizing that Hatchet and Flip might be able to find her easily. Bobbie then scans the horizon for the pillager outpost just as the sun is setting, but it is nowhere to be seen, making her realize that she may be lost. As the moon rises, however, she notices an aura of light on the horizon, making her realize that she might be near a village. Just then, Bobbie is attacked by a spider jockey, but kills it with relative ease after remembering what Ben had said about combat skills. Layla then gives Bobbie another apple to eat before going off to find some more as a zombie and spider approach Bobbie, making her realize that she would have to fight numerous hostile mobs just to be able to reach the village.

=== Chapter 15 ===

Meanwhile, Ben continues to follow the dolphins, which eventually lead him to a shipwreck, and the chest inside it contains a compass, a few feathers, and a treasure map. Just then, a drowned appears and attacks him, but one of the tridents hits a nearby dolphin, causing them to attack it. As Ben breaks the surface, he swims over to his boat, but is greeted with a trident pointed right at him. At first, Ben thinks that Johnny got a hold of one, but it was actually a pirate that did, who decides to take the boat for himself.

=== Chapter 16 ===

Back with Bobbie, she eventually reaches the village just as the sun begins to rise above the horizon, but the village is fortified by a stone wall adorned with colorful banners and lookout towers. She approaches the gate but is stopped by a figure who informs her that adventurers may enter for a fee. Bobbie says that she is not an adventurer but mentions that she is a traveler who is trying to stop a bad guy, inadvertently slipping that she is technically an adventurer. Eventually, the figure, named Kyro, says to Bobbie that she can come in for free as long as she gives him a few echo shards from a city in the deep dark, and she ultimately accepts his challenge. As she leaves, a voice asks Kyro as what was all that noise, and he says that it was from "an aspiring hero" that they need not worry about. The voice is then revealed to be Ben, who grins, praising the Overlords for high standards and then asks for some more cooked chicken to eat.

=== Chapter 17 ===

The story then backtracks to when Ben is arguing with the pirate, who is named Paulie; surprisingly, he is younger than Ben and about the same age as Johnny. Ben then asks Paulie as to what happened to Johnny, and he says that he tossed him overboard. Enraged, Ben climbs onto the boat and bats the trident aside, ordering Paulie to take him to Johnny. Surprisingly, Paulie complies and brings the boat back to Johnny within minutes. After Ben pulls Johnny back onto the boat, he unsurprisingly knocks Paulie overboard and steers the boat westward, not to mention that Paulie had taken the treasure map from Ben when he wasn’t looking. Nonetheless, Ben had taken the pirate hat that belonged to Paulie and decided to wear it, not knowing what would happen when he arrived at the fortified village. Upon doing so, Ben tells Kyro a white lie that he got the pirate hat from a pirate that had a crew of skeletons and took their loot, and Kyro decides to take Ben’s statement at face value and lets him in, where he is greeted by two members of the Overworld Overlords: Major Miner and Diamond Jubilee. The two then show Ben around the village, who recognized the layout despite the obvious improvements that the Overworld Overlords had made to it, before Major Miner says to Ben that he is here to join them. Ben questions this as Major Miner also says that there is a fee of some emeralds to join them, before deciding to call him Bandit Ben and offering him some food and a place to sleep for the night before making his decision tomorrow. Ben then talks to the three about Logan and suggests that they evacuate and relocate somewhere else, but that suggestion is turned down as Kyro is signaled that someone is approaching the village.

=== Chapter 18 ===

The story then fast-forwards back to Bobbie after she was denied entrance to the village. Frustrated about the errand she has to do, she carves out an irregular staircase with her pickaxe, eventually making it down to a cavern illuminated by the glow of lava. Bobbie proceeds carefully, knowing that she would have to dig even deeper to find the treasure that she is looking for. She then looks through her inventory only to discover that she only has a handful of torches left, so she decides to retrace her steps to get back to the surface, eventually appearing back up in the forest and cutting down some trees for wood to craft some more torches. Just then, Bobbie hears the voices of Hatchet and Flip and hurries back to the hole, plugging it up with dirt. However, Bobbie quickly becomes worried that Hatchet and Flip might know that she was here, so she decides to act on impulse and dig sideways toward the river, eventually breaking out a block from the edge of it, letting the water flow downward into the cave, almost like a waterslide. Bobbie then finds her footing on a patch of stone in the corner near the end of the makeshift waterslide just as the water reaches the lava, creating obsidian. Bobbie then decides to mine out the obsidian with her diamond pickaxe to use as a trap. After collecting the necessary materials, she walls off the water, preps her torches, and continues to dig downward, eventually finding an ancient city. Bobbie decides to walk through it despite the sounds of sculk sensors and sculk shriekers on nearly every step that she took, before she feels like that someone is watching her. Out of spite, she aims and fires her crossbow at a mysterious figure off in the distance, and ends up hitting it. At first, Bobbie thinks that Hatchet and Flip might’ve found her, but after the figure falls into the hole that Bobbie had made, it says to Bobbie that they thought they were friends. Bobbie couldn’t believe her ears at the sound of the voice and fumbles around for a torch, revealing the figure to be none other than Ben.