<noinclude>{{fiction|third|chapter|Minecraft: Zombies Return!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 19 ===

Ben says to Bobbie that he is here to save her. Bobbie is relieved to see him, but soon begins to wonder where Johnny is. Ben reaffirms her that he was left behind with the Overworld Overlords. Although a bit angry, Bobbie sends down some dirt block for Ben to get out of the trap, but Hatchet and Flip are already close by, waiting for them. Bobbie then asks Ben as to how he found her, and he says Kyro told him that he would send a "snarky adventurer-who-says-she’s-not-an-adventurer" down here, referring to her. Bobbie and Ben then start to run off in the thick fog, and engage in a brief argument about what their plan was going to be, but Ben ends up tripping over a sculk shrieker before he could finish his sentence, and right after that, a warden emerges from beneath the ground.

=== Chapter 20 ===

Bobbie is very frightened upon seeing the warden, and Flip’s crossbow goes off, inadvertently causing the warden to go after him and Hatchet. Bobbie and Ben then go in the opposite direction, but the former quickly realizes that they can’t just leave Hatchet and Flip behind. Ben insists that they do, but gives in quickly as Bobbie aims her crossbow toward a sculk sensor. She then fires at it, but it was too close to the warden, so now it is chasing after her and Ben. The two soon find an open doorway which leads to a hidden compartment, and dive into it, narrowly avoiding the warden for the time being. They soon find a chest in the central area of the ancient city, which contains an echo shard, and the two then go up to a high platform to avoid the warden’s reach. Ben and Bobbie then throw snowballs far away from the platform to lure the warden away from them, and it isn’t long before the warden burrows into the ground. The two then safely head back to the tunnel that Bobbie had made which would lead them back to the surface, but Hatchet and Flip are blocking their path. Ben then lunges at Flip to knock the crossbow out of his hand, followed by Bobbie swinging her diamond pickaxe onto Hatchet’s foot. With the two now subdued, Ben then mentions to them that Logan actually doesn’t want them around, offering them Logan’s journal to look over. After Hatchet and Flip look over the journal, which includes tallies of every time Flip missed a target and every time that Hatchet said something that was deemed as foolish, they come to accept that Logan isn’t the best person to be around and now root for Ben and Bobbie to go after him. The four then begin heading back up to the surface.

=== Chapter 21 ===

Upon reaching the surface, Ben and Bobbie follow the trail of torches left by Ben back to the village, homer of the headquarters for the Overworld Overlords. The two agree that they can’t let Logan destroy them, and they also can’t let the Overlords kill off the remaining zombies, and Ben adds that he’ll cure the zombies as long as he also pays an initiation fee, much to Bobbie’s suspicion. Kyro then greets the two at the village gates, and Bobbie holds up an echo shard, allowing Kyro to have the two enter the village. Just then, a raid horn sounds, and pillagers begin closing in on the village from three directions. One of them fires an arrow, causing the rest of the Overlords to fire back at them. Fortunately, the trio of pillagers are killed before they reach the gate, but a crashing sound is heard nearby, and pillagers enter the village through a breached wall on the far side. Ben then leads Bobbie through the village to find Johnny, mainly avoiding the pillagers, but then the two hear digging beneath them as the sun sets.

A hole then opens in the center of the village, releasing Logan and his horde of zombies. Bobbie then begins breaking another portion of the wall, wanting the Overlords to retreat, but Kyro immediately assumes that she and Ben are traitors, and fires arrows at them. Ben pulls Bobbie out of Kyro’s range, and then Bobbie sets fire to the cafeteria in a panic without first realizing that Johnny is in there. Ben then heads in the cafeteria and removes the fence post which had Johnny tied to it, followed by Bobbie bursting into the cafeteria in a state of shock and repeatedly tells Johnny that she is sorry. A ravager then appears, charging through the village and knocking down two Overlords, leaving no choice but for them to retreat to the hills. Ben, Bobbie, and Johnny go a different way, and Kyro exclaims to them that their actions are ones that they’ll soon regret.

=== Chapter 22 ===

As the three (Ben, Bobbie, and Johnny) leave the village behind, Bobbie could tell right away that Ben was upset. She asks him as to what is wrong, and he says that he’ll do so once he is done hallucinating things. Bobbie’s allay, named Layla, then shows up with an apple, and she gives it to Ben to eat. Ben looks at the allay, seemingly puzzled, and Bobbie mentions to him that Layla was the allay that she had saved back at the pillager outpost. She also mentions that she was trying to help Other Ben there, which Ben immediately questions about. Bobbie is then interrupted by a phantom, and she, Ben, and Johnny quickly take shelter in the side of a small cliff, closing the gap behind them. Bobbie then sets up torches in the enclosed space as she and Ben talk about what happened back at the village, mentioning about setting the homes there on fire. Bobbie immediately interjects, saying that she only set the cafeteria on fire, and Ben immediately interjects back, saying that what she did to the village was what Logan did to her village. Bobbie then says that if she helped to destroy the village, that it was to save the people that were there, adding that she didn’t know of any other solutions and also didn’t hear about any ideas from Ben about what to do. Bobbie immediately apologizes to Ben after saying that, saying that she didn’t mean it and also that she would have him next to her in case of a fight. The two then discuss a bit about working together as they reconcile.
 
=== Chapter 23 ===

The three (Ben, Bobbie, and Johnny) are then seen approaching the summit of a mountain as Bobbie asks Ben about Pigstep Peggy. Ben says that he doesn’t know much about her other than she is one of Logan’s targets, adding that she might have done something to anger him. Ben then says that he asked about Peggy back at the village with Kyro, who said to him that she was an adventurer from way back when who now keeps to herself. As the three reach the summit, Ben expects for there to be an expanse of greenery with Peggy’s home to be surrounded by flowers, but instead, it is a fortress that is inside a volcano. Although feeling intimidated at the sight of it, they head toward it, soon reaching a stone platform at the same level as the fortress, which was built using crying obsidian. The three then walk across a single-block bridge of stone toward the fortress, but Ben steps on a pressure plate. Fearing the bridge might be booby-trapped, they place down dirt beside the bridge, but the pressure plate is revealed to only light up a redstone torch that appeared in one of the fortress’ windows. Now realizing what the pressure plate was for, Ben feels worried about being turned away by Peggy.

=== Chapter 24 ===

They make it up to the front yard of the fortress, being greeted by Peggy. She asks the three if they appear to be lost, but Ben says that he is looking for someone named Pigstep Peggy. Peggy then asks him as to where he heard that name, and Bobbie says that they heard stories about a great adventurer and they were hoping to meet her. At first, Peggy appears to dismiss them, but she then notices an allay in her peripheral vision, offering her an apple. She is amazed upon seeing something as new as that, and then opens the door wider, immediately laying her eyes on Johnny, and then asks the three to head on inside and tell her, now referred to as simply Peg, about what had happened, mentioning that her days of pigstepping are behind her. Ben then asks as to what that means, and Peg says that she might have a thing or two to teach them after all. Inside the fortress, it appeared much more cozy compared to the outside being as fearsome as it would.

The walls were made of dark wood with numerous paintings on the walls, and crystals made out of quartz. Ben then notices an ender pearl on a bookshelf, making him realize that Peg had been to the Nether. She affirms this, saying that she had been there for a lot of time. Bobbie then mentions to Peg about Logan, warning her that he is bringing an army of the undead toward her fortress, but Peg appears to dismiss it, saying that she can take care of herself. Ben and Bobbie stare at each other in awkward disbelief as they hear a muffled sound coming from nearby, noticing its coming from a nearby door. Peg says that the door leads to her cellar, and Bobbie thinks that Logan might be here already, but Peg dismisses it, saying that she has alarms and traps aplenty to keep unwanted guests away. As Peg has Ben and Bobbie sit down for some mushroom stew, Johnny, still in the front room, never takes his eyes off the cellar door.

=== Chapter 25 ===

Peg then asks Bobbie and Ben if they wish to spend the night here, and although Bobbie agrees, Ben feels reluctant about doing so, whispering to Bobbie that something feels off about Peg. Bobbie rebuttals by saying that she hadn’t slept in a week, and Ben can’t seem to argue with that. Ben then asks Peg if she had met Logan, wondering if he has some vendetta against her, and Peg says that anything is possible, mentioning that she tries not to leave any of her enemies alive, and then offers Ben and Bobbie some cake. Ben politely refuses, but Bobbie happily accepts and eats a few pieces. Peg then says to the two that she does get some young adventurers from time to time, asking to either be their apprentice, train them, or ask for advice, and she turns away each and every one as she has no plans to look for a sidekick. Peg then asks the two as to how they keep Johnny from attacking them, and Bobbie says that it took a lot of training, adding that he still tries to attack sometimes if he is over-stimulated. Ben then hears a low rumbling sound, wondering as to what it is, but Peg says that it is her stomach, adding that she can’t handle gluten very well due to her age. Ben feels suspicious, saying that he didn’t notice her eating any of the cake, but Peg has him and Bobbie go to their rooms instead, as it appears to be getting late. Ben is given a small guest room with only a bed, a chest, a furnace, and a one-block window. He lays down on the bed, but keeps his eye on the window, which is focused on just past the rim of the volcano. He decides to wait until midnight before enacting his plan as he doesn’t appear to buy how Peg is acting.

=== Chapter 26 ===

Bobbie wakes up sometime later, sensing that something is wrong, and soon realizes that Johnny is missing as Peg is sitting at the foot of her bed. Bobbie then asks her as to where Johnny is, but Peg dismisses the question at first and asks Bobbie if she wants some milk and cookies. Bobbie politely refuses and again asks as to where Johnny is, and Peg says to her that Johnny is safe, adding that the carved pumpkin on his head makes him far easier to manage. Bobbie then asks Peg if she didn’t hurt him, and Peg reassures her that he is safe, adding that she took Johnny to Ben’s room because she needed her help with something. Bobbie questions this, knowing that she said the day before that she didn’t want a sidekick, and although Peg agrees, she also says that someone "who can tame zombies and befriend blue spirits" as someone who is special. As Peg leads Bobbie down the paths of her fortress, Bobbie wonders if they should get Ben to help, but Peg says that she hopes that her non-combat skills will be of need. The two then enter a chamber complete with armor stands, numerous crafting tables, chests, and a nether portal in the center. Peg suits Bobbie up with a gold helmet, a dark gray leather tunic, and iron boots, while Peg suits herself up in full gold armor. Bobbie also decides to bring along the best sword that Peg has, although Peg says that she’ll try to keep them out of combat as much as possible. Peg then ignites the obsidian frame of the nether portal with flint and steel, igniting it in a purple glow. Peg then gently pushes Bobbie into the portal.

=== Chapter 27 ===

Backtracking to Ben, he waits until the moon rises above the volcano before enacting his plan, but unbeknownst to him, it was already foiled the moment that Johnny was put into his room. Nonetheless, Ben eventually finds the door to the basement, and screams upon opening it.