=== Chapter 22 ===

Amy and Tuna head down the straight corridor for what seemed like forever. Amy begins to swear, and she presses her hands against the walls of the tunnel, making her realize that they might be close to a vein or pool of lava. She then calls out for Tuna, but gets no response. Tuna does come back to her quickly, however, and begins hissing at the darkness. The sounds of pitter-pattering make Amy realize that there are multiple spiders, and as if on cue, they appear and attempt to attack them. Amy and Tuna hurry down the corridor only to be blocked off by stone blocks that were placed down by somebody. Amy hurriedly mines at the blocks while Tuna keeps the spiders at bay. Just then, someone’s voice, along with their hand, motions to follow them, and Amy does so out of hesitation, grabbing Tuna and heading into the other tunnel; she is ultimately surprised to see that the person is Marjorie, who gives off a crooked smile as she says that it is funny that she is meeting Amy and Tuna down here.

=== Chapter 23 ===

Amy raises her pickaxe and cautiously backs away from Marjorie, believing that she had followed her, knocked out Gummo, and put him in the chamber with the slimes. Marjorie says that it was a misunderstanding and mentions to Amy that there is a safe place up ahead where they can talk things over. Amy questions Marjorie about her intentions, thinking that she’ll lock her in another room with spiders, but after Marjorie mentions that there is fruit in the room for her to eat, Amy hesitates and eventually follows her to the room. The room consists of a table with a large chest and four chairs surrounding the table. On the table is a bowl filled with apples, and Amy quickly heads over to them as Marjorie closes the door leading into the room behind them. As Amy finishes one of the apples, she asks Marjorie as to why she is down here and what she is trying to accomplish. Marjorie then explains that she felt that it was dumb for her to let Amy head off to Glory’s Haven be herself, so she followed her and ended up in a trap downstairs. Amy has a hard time believing what Marjorie is saying, thinking that it is a coincidence that she and Gummo ended up in a trap. Marjorie then says that she saw someone else down in her area before asking as to where Gummo is. Amy says that Gummo was separated from Amy thanks to a trap, accusing Marjorie of putting him down in the slime trap. Marjorie says once more that it wasn’t her, and then opens the door to allow Amy to leave. Marjorie then takes a diamond sword out of a chest in the corner of the room and gives it to Amy, telling her that there is a large chamber with a door she couldn’t open further down the tunnel. Amy then hurries toward the chamber.

=== Chapter 24 ===

Amy and Tuna quickly arrive at the chamber that Marjorie had mentioned, which had iron doors as well as benches on either side with two torches above each bench. Beyond the doors was a staircase leading down, and Amy wonders if there is a way to open them. Amy and Tuna sit down on the benches to rest for a bit before Amy notices an item frame with a sword pointing downward, while the others were pointing upright. Amy then turns the sword pointing down so it matches the other swords pointing up, causing a lever to appear. She flips it, causing the iron doors to swing open. Amy and Tuna then head through the doors, with the former hoping that they will find Marc down there.

=== Chapter 25 ===

Heading downstairs, Amy notices that the chamber reminds her of home, with framed pictures of Glory’s Haven on the walls. One of the pictures showcases the mansion at night, with hundreds of flying creatures shown over an island, leading Amy to believe that this might be where they are right now. The chamber is wider than the others she was in earlier, with doors lining each side. Cautiously opening the set of doors closest to her, Amy finds a room with a fireplace, some areas to sit down, and a bunch of apples and bread; the ceiling in the room extended out to the surface with a smell of fresh air. Amy then snatches some bread and leaves the room, taking a bite out of the bread as she walks through the rest of the chamber. A scream is then heard, and Amy finds Marc in a room nearby with six makeshift cages, himself being in one of them. Marc notices Tuna by him and then turns to see Amy, who asks him if Marjorie locked him in here. Marc says that it wasn’t her, adding that the one that did so was "way too strong" to be her. Amy disagrees, saying that women could be strong as well, and Marc concurs in part, knowing that Marjorie was kind to him as well. Amy then mentions about Gummo being here as well, adding that he helped her find the house, before asking as to where everyone else is. Marc then says that someone else was here before "they" got him. Amy notices the feeling of genunine fear in his face, and Marc says to her that she should leave quickly, adding that the rooms that they are in right now aren’t safe and that they don’t have much time. Amy wonders as to what Marc is talking about, and he whispers to her that phantoms are coming.

=== Chapter 26 ===

Amy immediately wonders as to why phantoms would show up when they are underground, and asks Marc as to the last time he had slept. Marc then says that the noises such as pistons kept him awake for so long. After a brief flashback to Marc getting bit from a spider, Amy digs some blocks out from underneath the cage to free him, adding that Glory’s Haven is a honeypot of tunnels and traps. She, Marc, and Tuna then leave the room.

=== Chapter 27 ===

Heading back to where Amy last saw Marjorie, noticing that she isn’t there. Marc then looks in a nearby chest, finding a pair of leather pants and putting them on. Marc then considers resting for a bit, while Amy insists that they continue on. Marc then says to her about how she got here without being told about what to do or anyone bossing around, and again insists that he rest for a bit. Amy agrees on the condition that he keep an eye on Tuna. Marc reluctantly agrees before Amy leaves the room, hoping to find Marjorie, come back here, and then they would all leave together.

=== Chapter 28 ===

Amy starts heading toward where Marjorie had directed her before turning left instead of right at the fork in the tunnels, hearing the screeching of phantoms above her. She then notices something shiny in the distance: a diamond sword in front of a pair of wooden doors. Carefully opening the doors, Amy then enters a torch-lit room with chests of loot, various weapons and armor pieces, and a full set of horse armor. She examines the room, figuring that it could be the fabled loot of Glory’s Haven, but when she notices tags with names of previous adventurers on them, she quickly realizes that it is a trophy pile created by the person that lives here. More screeching of phantoms is then heard, and Amy charges out of the room with a shield in hand as the phantoms start to swoop down at her.

[[Category:Minecraft: House of Horrors chapters]]