{{More images}}{{Lost version|nolauncher=1}}{{Infobox version
| image = MinecraftEdu 1.6.4 Build 7.png
| edition = MinecraftEdu
| type = Development Build
| date = December 22, 2013
| downloads = 
| prevparent = 1.6.4 Build 1
| prev = 1.6.4 Build 6
| next = 1.6.4 Build 8
| nextparent = 1.7.10 Build 1
}}

'''1.6.4 Build 7<ref name="blog">{{link |url=https://kulttuuri.tumblr.com/post/70809921945/minecraftedu-development-build-7-the-great-big-xmas|title=MinecraftEdu Development Build 7: The Great Big Xmas Update |date=December 22, 2013 |website=Tumblr|author=}}</ref>''' is the seventh build for {{El|MinecraftEdu}} 1.6.4, released on December 22, 2013. It is based on [[Java Edition 1.6.4]]. This is the last build released in 2013.

== Additions ==

=== General ===
* Mod Manager in Launcher, allows you to customize your MinecraftEdu experience.
* Proxy Settings panel in Launcher.
* Better support for world templates (fetches all new world template information).
* Ability to upload your own world templates from the web.
* Crosshairs for build mode states.
* Welcome message in server interface that gets saved with the current world.
* Setting to hide mods button in launcher: disable-launcher-mods-button=true to launchersettings.ini

== Fixes ==
'''7 bugs fixed'''
* Fixed free memory % amount in server gui.
* Updated a few settings to use the new Villagers setting rather than Animals. This fixed the villagers disappearing problem.
* Fixed hidden option "hidestartmenu" hiding quit button instead of select name and gender.
* Teleport function dismounts entities before teleporting.
* Students can no longer get edu blocks from creative inventory search.
* If player rides something and crosses a border block player will be dismounted.
* Students can now use anything on top of build allow blocks. (including mod items)

== References ==
<references />
== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Edu versions}}

[[ja:MinecraftEdu 1.6.4 Build 7]]