=== Chapter 8 ===

Indeed, the hostile mobs soon walk into the sunlight, burning them up and making it easier for Summer and Guy to kill them. Guy then focuses on mining away at coal, iron, and copper ores while drinking a potion of Night Vision, while Summer keeps guard, noting that spiders aren’t hostile during the day. Guy beings to wonder about what copper could be used for just as his night vision begins to wear off. Fortunately, Summer places down a torch right before it wears off completely. Just then, the two hear the cackling of a witch nearby and retreat from the cave, turning back ever so often to attack and kill it. Guy and Summer then head back to the village, but the former is still worried that the iron golem will attack him for what happened yesterday. Summer assures him that the golem would’ve already forgot about it by now, and indeed, the golem doesn’t attack Guy. The two then notice two llamas (described by Guy as a "horsheep") and a wandering trader right next to them. Guy attempts to trade with it, being offered to buy blue dye, blue ice, spruce saplings, a bucket of fish, gunpowder, or a brown mushroom. He attempts to use copper with no luck, but then realizes he can trade with paper, so he rushes back to the river to collect the sugar cane to craft into paper. Guy then begins to think that the wandering trader might leave afterward, so he uses the leftover cobblestone in his inventory to build a small house for it to stay in. He then crafts a bed while Summer trades some coal with the fisherman for emeralds. As Guy prepares to set down a torch, he hears Summer’s voice feel annoyed, surprised, and soft at the same time. Guy walks out to investigate the sounds, noticing something at the center of the village, and asks Summer as to what she did.

=== Chapter 9 ===

Although Guy is surprised to see a new villager appear (presumed to be a child), he still asks Summer as to what she did. Summer explains that she sold the fisherman some coal and was using the emeralds to buy gunpowder when she ran out of room in her inventory, so she decided to remove some bread from it temporarily to make space for the gunpowder. However, the other villagers quickly pick it up, including the fisherman and a nitwit, and the two villagers just look at each other with hearts flourishing from them until the child appeared. They decide to observer the villagers over the next several days, noting that the villagers stuck to their respective jobs. Guy and Summer also learned how to craft a lightning rod from copper, and find out a spyglass would need to be crafted with an amethyst shard. One day, as the sun sets, the young villager snabs up the wandering trader’s bed. As Summer falls asleep, Guy watches over the village when he notices the wandering trader standing nearby with its two llamas, and soon notices that the wandering trader had "vanished". Fearing that it may have been killed, Guy wakes Summer up and the two racer over to the two llamas, but they soon find out that the wandering trader is still there, now understanding that it drank a potion of Invisibility to avoid it being attacked by hostile mobs. The two then head back to their shelter to sleep, and continue to observer the villagers the following morning, not realizing until a bit later that the young villager had already grown up. Guy and Summer then have a brief discussion about prejudging villagers based on their clothes, with Guy thinking that Summer is doing so. She says that she isn’t, adding that she only sees the now grown-up villager as someone who isn’t contributing to the village. Guy then says that they can’t just blame the entire village for the grown-up villager not contributing, adding that he and Summer are responsible for providing the basics for that villager: those being food, shelter, and education. The last word stick’s in Guy’s mind so much that he makes a makeshift house for the villager, complete with a crafting table and chest, and also crafts a smithing table, placed in-between them. The villager then heads into the makeshift house and goes directly to the smithing table, now working as a toolsmith. Summer then trades with the villager with one emerald for fifteen coal, followed by one emerald for four iron ingots. Guy then notices that the villager is offering an enchanted iron shovel for twenty emeralds, and Summer considers selling the villager some more iron, but that offer is locked up, so they instead sell forty-five coal for three emeralds, adding to the seventeen they already have to buy the enchanted shovel, allowing Guy and Summer to dig out grass and dirt more quickly. The two then head back to their shelter to prepare some more mining tomorrow.

=== Chapter 10 ===

The next morning, Guy and Summer head back to the cave, doing the same method as before to dispel the hostile mobs: luring them into the sun while they get show at by arrows at the top of the cave. Eventually, the two kill off a majority of the mobs to continue deeper into the cave, mining out as much coal and iron as they can find. Guy and Summer the come across a horizontal crevice which is home to an amethyst geode with amethyst clusters and blocks of amethyst inside them. Guy already starts to wonder as to what other new minerals they could find, while Summer suggests that they head back home with what they have. Guy insists on staying here, adding that they could make this their new home, placing down a furnace to smelt the raw copper into copper ingots, and using them with an amethyst shard to craft a spyglass. Summer then takes the spyglass and aims it back up through the tunnel they had just come through, before soon realizing that they wouldn’t need it down here anyway because of the area they are in being pitch black. The two then start to head up a waterfall before Guy notices a glow squid as an arrow hits him in the hip, causing him to fall into a giant lake below, noticing a few more glow squids as the skeleton continues to shoot at him. Guy dives to evade the arrows as best as he could before heading back up the waterfall once more. Summer then tosses him a potion of Night Vision, revealing the skeleton to be riding a spider: a spider jockey. As Guy and Summer reach the top of the waterfall, Summer places down a crafting table and crafts a boat, getting into it and following along the river. Guy crafts a boat as well and follows her down the river as he attacks the spider jockey with his crossbow. Just then, Summer warns Guy about a waterfall, but Guy ends up falling down it. He thinks he is falling down at incredible speed, but being in the boat ends up slowing the speed of descent tremendously. Guy soon lands on solid ground and slowly starts paddling along it, much to his amusement, be he is soon attacked by hostile mobs. He jumps out of the boat and aims his crossbow at the closest one to him, a baby zombie, but Summer, who is riding the waterfall, ends up killing it from behind with an arrow. She calls down to Guy that they can’t go back up due to the skeletons being prepared to snipe at them, so they instead end up going down a cave lined with obsidian just as their night vision wears off, and soon find a mineshaft with a cave spider spawner close by. They avoid it as best they can as Guy notices an axolotl from a small spout of water from a hole in the side of the mineshaft. He and Summer consider using it to defend themselves from the cave spiders, but Summer gets attacked by a cave spider just as quickly. Guy knocks the cave spider back with its diamond sword and then uses cobblestone to seal up the path leading to the spawner before meeting up back with Summer on the blocks leading upwards to a different part of the mineshaft. Guy considers stocking up on food and weapons to go after the cave spiders, but Summer suggests that they head back to the village with what they already have, and Guy sheepishly agrees. He considers going back the way they came, buy Summer silently suggests just mining their way up by raising her fist to the roof, and Guy agrees almost immediately, feeling relieved that he wouldn’t have to worry about pockets of lava like in the Nether.

=== Chapter 11 ===

Guy and Summer eventually reach the surface, appearing back in the village that they were in, and the latter immediately holds out the water bucket with the axolotl to the other villagers, hoping to trade it for something valuable, but no one was interested. Summer then dumps the axolotl from the bucket into a small area of water, only for the axolotl to attack and kill two brown fish in said area. She then darts into the library and returns with a book about wildlife, learning more about axolotls. Just then, Summer has an idea. Over the next few days, she and Guy entice a villager with coal and another one with iron, taking the emeralds from them to sell to another villager to buy additional beds for a big building with plenty of rooms, not to mention colored beds and paintings for decoration. Next, they clear a patch of land well away from the village, planting several rows of wheat and carrots, as well as using compost bins to make bonemeal. Summer then makes a fish farm by pointing out the exact spot in the river where salmon were spawning and then walling off the land on each side and "damming" both ends of the area so the axolotl can kill the salmon. Both Guy and Summer use the farm to make a profit and trade with the villagers, causing the villagers to breed and have children; Guy and Summer then make small sheds with various job site blocks (grindstones, cartography tables, blast furnaces, etc.) so the child villagers can have jobs for their future. Indeed, one of the children grows up and takes the cartography table, becoming a cartographer. This continues over the next few weeks, with the unemployed adult villagers snatching up jobs as if they were hotcakes. Later on, Guy and Summer start building their house atop a nearby hill, being twelve blocks long, twelve blocks wide, and four stories high. The first floor is used for storage, with nothing but rows of chests. The second floor is used for appliances such as brewing stands, blast furnaces, and cartography tables. The third and fourth floors are used as Guy’s and Summer’s personal apartments, each containing a bed, a chest, and personal decorations such as paintings and potted flowers. Summer then considers making a hot tub, but Guy refuses, bringing up the creeper that had exploded and destroyed his first house. Summer then suggests that they line up the hot tub with obsidian, to which Guy gives in.

Later, Summer makes a diving board and jumps off of it into the river at the base of their house. She then talks to a villager that Guy believes to be Weaver at first, but soon realizes that it is a new villager upon looking through his spyglass. He rushes down the stairs to find Summer cheerful over brand new arrows courtesy of Mr. Fletcher. She reminds Guy about the fletching table that they had crafted back in the forest, so the villager used it to craft arrows. The two then realize that they don’t need to kill chickens for feathers to make arrows anymore. Guy and Summer then grab some sugar cane they had planted to make paper, trading it and nine emeralds with the librarian villager for a bookshelf. After placing it down to find a good spot to put it, Guy punches it down with his bare hand, dropping three books. The two then realize that they can enchant books, so they sell whatever they can, eventually getting seven emeralds, and trade that along with one book to the librarian villager for an enchanted book with Flame. Back at their house, they enchant Summer’s bow with Flame, and they test it on the river near the village. Sure enough, flaming arrows shot out of the bow. Guy then goes to their enchanting table and enchants his crossbow with Multishot, testing it out on a spider climbing up onto their deck. The enchantment makes the crossbow fire three arrows instead of one, killing the spider with ease. Guy and Summer celebrate their discovery, but the two don’t know that their good times are about to end.

=== Chapter 12 ===

Guy says to the reader that he doesn’t believe in omens, but he now concurs that he should have believed in them after waking up one morning to overcast clouds in the desert, noticing some figures off in the distance. He reaches for his spyglass, but the figures had already vanished by then. Summer then greets Guy and talks with him about the changes to the village. The two then go about their errands, with Summer brewing potions and Guy harvesting food from their farm. Guy then decides to sell some of their food for emeralds, but is unable to find Farmer, making him worried. Summer concurs, believing that Farmer might have fallen in a hole in the middle of the savanna biome. They head down it, killing a skeleton along the way, and they start hearing a noise that sounds like a zombie, which in turn is the zombie villager that was Farmer. Summer kills it quickly and immediately apologizes, but Guy believes that she did the right thing, asking how Farmer turned into a zombie. Summer believes that Farmer was attacked by a zombie to cause such. As they head back to the surface, Guy and Summer are attacked by phantoms, but they decide sleep to avoid them. The next night, the two discuss about the history of villages and villagers before they notice Fletcher outside in the darkness. They decide to head over there to protect him, killing a flaming zombie as the golems work to protect the other villagers. Fortunately, Fletcher goes into a house and sleeps it off as if never happened. Guy and Summer relish in their victory; although they acknowledge that they can’t be here every night, they know that they are a part of the village as everyone else is.

=== Chapter 13 ===

Summer reiterates their talking point about not being here every night to protect the village, adding that they wouldn’t be able to get their own tasks done. Guy considers blocking the village doors, but Summer believes that it would take too much time and trap the villagers inside. Guy then brings up building a wall around the perimeter of the village, but Summer believes that the villagers won’t have the freedom to roam around. Guy concurs, insisting that they reach a compromise, but Summer understands that the villagers aren’t part of the discussion. Eventually, the two come to a compromise with them setting up a wall around the outer houses of the village, including doors in some sections so the villagers can roam freely. It came across as a sideways "T", with the wide corners being used for sniping out hostile mobs. They place the last block in just as the sun sets below the horizon, but are soon attacked by zombies, unintentionally caused by the iron golems stepping on the pressure plates. Guy goes after the zombies, but accidentally hits the iron golem, causing him to be flung over the wall to the other side. Guy and Summer have no choice but to retreat back into their house, and they come to realize that they are in a video game, and the creators of it are the ones that make the decisions. The sun then rises, and the villagers go about their day as if nothing happened. Guy and Summer then plant some wheat seeds on a grass block next to water that is surrounded by diorite fences, setting up a makeshift memorial for Farmer. Guy says some words in silence before being greeted by a baby villager. Summer suggests that it came to pay respects to Farmer as the baby villager lets out a "hrrh".

=== Chapter 14 ===

Guy and Summer decide to get back to mining, but also decide to enchant their armor beforehand. Summer enchants her helmet with Protection, her chestplate with Blast Protection, her leggings with Fire Protection, and her boots with Frost Walker. Guy enchants his helmet with Respiration, his chestplate with Projectile Protection, his leggings with Thorns, and his boots with Unbreaking. Stacked up with food, arrows, wood, and potions, the two head back to the hole that Farmer slipped in and work down from there. Just then, the two are attacked by skeletons and zombies, but the zombie is affected by the Thorn enchantment on Guy’s leggings. The hostile mobs are killed with ease, and Summer is curious on testing her Frost Walker-enchanted boots on a lava lake. As Guy pours down a water bucket to turn the lava into obsidian, Summer jumps into the lava, with Guy shocked at her actions. She thinks that Summer is dead, but she pops up out of the lava unharmed, as she took a Fire Resistance potion as soon as she went in the lava. Summer apologizes to Guy for her rash actions, and Guy accepts it, warning her that he hopes they don’t regret using the potion. Guy then drinks his potion of Night Vision to look around the cave underneath the village, soon noticing a lush cave. The two pick some glow berries, which can be used as a light source, and several blocks of clay on the floor, in addition to axolotls. They consider using the axolotls for a fish farm, but just then, a creeper explodes behind Guy, launching him into the pond of water. Summer attempts to save him, but her Frost Walker-enchanted boots prevent her from doing so. Guy attempts to swim up to the surface quickly, but he soon realizes that he isn’t running out of air thanks to his Respiration-enchanted helmet. After the ice melts, Guy finally breaks the surface, wowed by how long he could breathe underwater thanks to the enchantment. He considers exploring some more underwater, and Summer agrees, saying that she will be digging up as much clay as she can. She also hops that Guy will come up to the surface every once in while so she doesn’t get concerned, and Guy agrees, drinking down his last Night Vision potion before going back under the surface. He swims around until he notices a block of iron ore, mining at it. Just then, Guy’s air runs out, and he frantically finds air to breathe. He fortunately breaks out enough stone to make an air pocket, killing a zombie afterward, but his Night Vision potion wears off.

[[Category:Minecraft: The Village chapters]]