<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: The Shipwreck}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 22: Jake ===

Emily gives Tank a keyboard for one of the computers that her sister, Carmen, had originally used, which is covered in stickers of skulls. The three (Jake, Tank, and Emily) soon finish brewing potions of water breathing, along with being equipped with diamond armor and enchanted weapons, when someone else joins the server under the name "TheCrestWizard". Emily notices a player avatar on a mountain to the east, believed to be TheCrestWizard, and the three head over there by boat. They eventually meet up with TheCrestWizard on the mountain and ask it some questions. TheCrestWizard then says that this world is its world, and that the three need to leave. Jake and Emily attempt to reason with TheCrestWizard, but TheCrestWizard soon kills Jake, Emily, and Tank using potions of harming and slowness, as well as an enchanted diamond sword.

=== Chapter 23: Emily ===

Although surprised by the fact that they were killed, they pause for a bit to eat some tamales that Emily had brought, as well as finish some cleaning projects in the community center. As they resume, Tank accidentally dies from drinking a potion of poison, but the three soon head back to where they last saw TheCrestWizard. In place of it is a chest surrounded by torches. Tank cautiously opens it, finding a note which reads:

{{Q|If you want your things<br>They can be found<br>Where birds dare not sing<br>Far beneath the ground<br>Beyond the fiery mouth of the dragon’s lair}}

At first, Emily thinks that TheCrestWizard left their stuff in the End, but Tank and Jake soon realize that it’s another riddle. The three then head down to the base of the mountain, surprised that it’s shaped like a dragon’s head. Jake then suggest building a bridge toward the dragon’s mouth, but Emily and Tank decide to start mining downward into the mountain, with Jake following close behind. Eventually, the three find an abandoned mineshaft which leads them to a structure resembling the dragon’s mouth. They notice a chest, excited that it’s their stuff, but soon the three are teleported without warning.

=== Chapter 24: Jake ===

Jake, Tank, and Emily are teleported to an area meant to resemble ruins, complete with cracked stone, vines, and mossy cobblestone. The three soon realize that their inventories were cleared when they were teleported. Emily and Tank try to escape, but Jake soon realizes that TheCrestWizard had teleported them to the beginning of an adventure map. Emily, in a fit of rage about how far they are away from their bases, inadvertently triggers a pressure plate, creating an opening in the wall leading toward another room. The three (Jake, Tank, and Emily) decide to head toward the room.

=== Chapter 25: Tank ===

The room consists of cobblestone, five doors, and a single torch above a chest. Tank opens the chest, finding a book which reads:

{{Q|Riddle the First<br>I am both life and death. Feed me three things and I live. Give me one drink and I will die.<br>You must defeat me to move forward.}}

At first, the three think that the solution is poison, but upon opening the door labeled as such, they are killed by several spiders. Respawning back at the start and heading back toward the room, Emily soon realizes that the riddle is about fire. Jake finds a door labeled with a bucket of water. Tank opens the door, relieved that it leads to a forest biome. Emily excitedly punches a tree, but as the time hits 4PM, she leaves as she has to go grocery shopping with her mother. Tank and Jake soon leave as well, with Tank heading toward Mr. Mishra’s convenience store, and Jake heading back toward his apartment.

=== Chapter 26: Emily ===

The next day, Jake, Tank, and Emily are back in the computer lab. They find a plateau with signs which read:

{{Q|Riddle the Second<br>My soul is empty until you begin to walk. I’ll show you a vision of forests with no trees, oceans with no waves, mountains without rocks, and the place of your next clue to the greatest treasure of this world.<br>Bear northeast a thousand paces and find me below the thicket with no roots.}}

The three decide to head a thousand blocks to the northeast, eventually stumbling upon a shipwreck in an ocean. Tank tries to go after a mermaid, but Emily make sure he doesn’t follow one out for too long. The three then search the shipwreck, but find nothing at first. Emily then has a flashback to when the user she had befriended, PacificViv, had uploaded a video about how to make hidden rooms with paintings. She swims back to the shipwreck and soon walks through a painting of a seashell to a room containing a chest with a map inside of it.

=== Chapter 27: Jake ===

Jake, Tank, and Emily begin heading in the direction as outlined by the map, eventually finding their base, left untouched with the exception of a chest on the west side, containing all of their missing items as well as a note from TheCrestWizard which reads:

{{Q|Seeing as you’ve discovered this unfinished world and started working on the riddles halfway through<br>I have devised a completely new challenge for you.<br>There are seven riddles total to find the treasure–you’ve solved two.<br>Good luck,<br>The Crest Wizard}}

Jake immediately feels impressed that TheCrestWizard has made a special challenge for them. Soon, the three begin repairing the inside of the base, with Tank repairing the nether portal. The three then go through the Nether portal, following signs in the Nether to another portal, which leads them to a plains biome. The three then log off for the day, hoping to finally solve the riddles tomorrow.

=== Chapter 28: Tank ===

The next day, Tank is putting empty cardboard boxes in a recycling bin at the community center when someone tells him that he hasn’t been answering his phone. Turning around, Tank is surprised that it’s Shark, and reiterates to him that he is busy with community service. Shark then questions as to why he saw Tank at Taco National one day with Jake. Tank tries to respond, but can’t seem to say anything. Shark then says to Tank that he is a nobody without him, and asks if he wants to "go back to kids laughing at you and calling you Frankenstein". Tank quietly says no. Shark then explains that the next time they hang out that they expect Tank to show up as well, and Tank quietly nods in agreement. Later that day, Jake, Tank, and Emily are back in Minecraft, heading towards the location that is marked with an X on the treasure map. The three eventually find a maze in a forest. Tank decides to use a notebook to draw the outline of the maze as he goes through it. Although the three stumble across hostile mobs, they eventually make it to the end, which contains an archway leading to a area of sand by some water. Emily opens a nearby chest which contains a note, reading the coordinates aloud. Emily and Jake are happy at Tank for solving the maze, who realizes that maybe he isn’t a nobody after all.