{{Distinguish|Minecraft Infdev}}
{{about|the versions of Indev from February 2010|the development cycle as a whole|Java Edition Indev|other editions|Version history}}
{{Infobox development phase
|title=Minecraft Indev
|image=Indev 20100223.png
|startver=[[Java Edition Indev 20100206-2034|February 6, 2010]]
|latestver=[[Java Edition Indev 20100223|February 23, 2010]]
|paid=Yes (€9.95) when originally released<br>No, if played through the launcher
|prevparent=Java Edition Classic
|prev=Java Edition Indev 0.31
|nextparent=Minecraft Infdev
|nextparentlink=Minecraft Infdev
}}{{relevant guide|Java Edition guides/Minecraft Indev releases}}

'''Minecraft Indev''' refers to 17 versions of '''[[Indev]]''' released from [[Indev 20100206-2034|February 6]] to [[Indev (February 23, 2010)|February 23, 2010]]. These versions added [[armor]], [[farming]], [[furnace]]s, and a [[day-night cycle]].

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|title= Minecraft Indev
|Farmland
|Furnace
|Lit Furnace
|Wooden Hoe
|Stone Hoe
|Iron Hoe
|Golden Hoe
|Diamond Hoe
|Bread
|Wheat Seeds
|Wheat
|Raw Porkchop
|Cooked Porkchop
|Flint
|Golden Helmet
|Golden Chestplate
|Golden Leggings
|Golden Boots
|Diamond Helmet
|Diamond Chestplate
|Diamond Leggings
|Diamond Boots
|Painting
|Painting Albanian
|Painting de_aztec
|Painting de_aztec
|Painting Target Successfully Bombed
|Painting Kebab med tre pepperoni
|Painting Paradisträd
|Painting Wasteland
|Painting Wanderer
|Painting Bonjour Monsieur Courbet
|Painting Fighters
|Painting The Pool
|Painting Seaside
|Painting sunset_dense
|Painting Bust
|Painting Match
|Painting Pointer
|Painting Skull and Roses
|Painting The Stage Is Set
|Painting The void
}}

=== General ===
;[[Daylight cycle]]
*The [[sun]] and [[moon]] move across the sky.
;[[Farming]]
*The player can plant [[wheat Seeds|seeds]] which can be grown into [[wheat]] and crafted into [[bread]].
;[[Third-person view]]
*Toggled by pressing {{key|F5}}.

=== Blocks ===
;[[Farmland]]
*Can have crops placed on it.
;[[Furnace]]
*Used to smelt items.

=== Items ===
;[[Hoe]]s
*Used to till [[dirt]] into [[farmland]].
;[[Bread]]
*Can be eaten.
*Crafted from wheat.
;[[Wheat Seeds|Seeds]]
*Can be placed on farmland.
*Grow into wheat.
;[[Wheat]]
*Can be crafted into [[bread]].
;[[Armor]]
*Can be worn.
*Used for protection.

=== Non-mob [[Entity|entities]] ===
;[[Painting]]s

=== [[World generation]] ===
;[[Map theme]]s

*

*

*Paradise - Beaches expanded, flowers are more common, and trees are less common with a bright sky.
*Woods - No flowers, trees generate commonly and the sky is dimmer.

== Changes ==

=== General ===
;[[Sound]]s
*Switched the sound system to use OpenAL.

=== Blocks ===
;[[Log]]
*Now drops itself instead of [[planks]].
;[[Cobblestone]]
*Smelts into stone when placed in a furnace.

=== [[Mob|Mobs]] ===
;[[Skeleton]]s
*Now burn in sunlight.
*Drop [[arrow]]s.
;[[Zombie]]s
*Now burn in sunlight.
*Drop [[feather]]s.
;[[Pig]]s
*Drop [[raw porkchop]]s.
;[[Creeper]]s
*Drop [[gunpowder]].
;[[Spider]]s
*Drop [[string]].

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition versions|Indev}}

[[Category:Versions]]

[[es:Minecraft Indev]]
[[pt:Minecraft Indev]]
[[ru:Minecraft Indev (Java Edition)]]
[[uk:Minecraft Indev]]
[[zh:Java版Minecraft Indev]]