<noinclude>{{fiction|fourth|chapter|Minecraft: Castle Redstone}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 22 ===

The next morning, the four (Sir Rajah, Pal, Faith, and Good Boy) leave the makeshift trap as the zombies have died under the sunlight. They quickly head toward the wall as seen on the map, continuing toward Castle Redstone. Upon arriving at the wall, Pal realizes that its actually a plateau, and Faith soon realizes that it houses a hidden door due to it being symmetrical. Pal climbs up the plateau to get a good look at the redstone circuit that is connected to the door, which is believed to be one hundred blocks long and one hundred blocks wide. Pal has Sir Rajah remove anything from the circuit that isn’t redstone, reminding them to have it set up like a cross. Despite being attacked by spiders and spiders jockeys, the group successfully set up the circuit, but when Faith places a torch down at the center of it, nothing happens.

=== Chapter 23 ===

Pal soon realizes that the circuit is not set up like a cross, but is actually in the shape of a star. Upon fixing the circuit, the door in the plateau opens, and the four head inside with the door closing behind them as the spiders and spider jockeys are left out in the dark night. The four soon come across a minecart track and a pattern on the wall, believed to be a map of Castle Redstone. As the four get into their minecarts, Pal presses a button for the minecarts to speed off into a tunnel, but Faith soon notices that they are heading toward a chasm.

=== Chapter 24 ===

The four immediately bail from their minecarts just before they fall into the chasm below. They soon notice lava, but Sir Rajah has potions of fire resistance, much to the surprise of everyone else. Sir Rajah and Pal then gulp down their potions. The two are soon swimming in lava, and make it to the other side of the chasm. Faith hesitates at first, knowing that the potion was brewed by Sir Rajah despite him claiming that he followed the recipe exactly, but she soon gulps down the potion. Good Boy jumps up at Faith, wanting to taste the potion. Although he does get a bit of it in its mouth, the bottle is knocked out of Faith’s hands and tosses out the remaining droplets of the potion. Faith gathers as much as she can before she takes a leap into the lava below.

=== Chapter 25 ===

Faith happily swims through the lava and meets up with Sir Rajah, Pal, and Good Boy in the other side. The four continue walking along the minecart track until they emerge out on the side of a hill, with Castle Redstone in sight.

=== Chapter 26 ===

Sir Rajah wonders as to what happened to everyone, and Faith says that the original rulers of Castle Redstone put a curse on it; the inhabitants left the city when they realized they couldn’t combat the curse. Pal stumbles across a walled garden with black roses, but after touching one, he suddenly feels exhausted as his mind tells him to give up. He begins to fall into a deep slumber, but Sir Rajah and Faith soon notice this and pull Pal out of the garden, and he soon gets his extremities working again. Pal wonders as to what happened, and Sir Rajah says that the black roses, according to his father, were a symbol of the demise of the inhabitants of Castle Redstone. The four then spread out across the city, analyzing the redstone circuits to find out how to open the iron doors leading into Castle Redstone. Pal eventually comes across a pool and decides to drain the water out of it for curiosity, eventually revealing a redstone circuit. He shouts at Sir Rajah and Faith that he found something and soon pulls the lever, which open the iron doors.

=== Chapter 27 ===

The four (Sir Rajah, Pal, Faith, and Good Boy) venture inside and walk along the halls and passageways, passing by crumbling statues, broken minecart tracks, overgrown gardens of carrots and pumpkins, and carved-out animal pens. The group attempt to take shelter and rest for the night, but Good Boy senses that something is wrong and snarls. The four then notice a shadow moving in the distance, with three heads swiveling as the figure rose from slumber. It was only then that the four realized that Castle Redstone was locked to prevent this figure from escaping and terrorizing their world. As they retreat, Sir Rajah says that the figure is the wither.

=== Chapter 28 ===

The four start to run away as fast as they can, with Faith realizing that Lord Maharajah had fought a wither, and Sir Rajah says that he barely made it out alive. The four attempt to make it back to the entrance, but Pal and Good Boy lose sight of Sir Rajah and Faith after turning a corner. Pal and Good Boy soon come across a library of sorts, but the books crumble in Pal’s hands as they had faded over time. Pal then realizes that he has to head back to the overgrown garden with the pumpkins, and heads back to the minecart track. Climbing a pyramid of ore, Pal realizes that the area he is in is a factory with sections for building materials, armor, and farming. Pal and Good Boy soon climb into a minecart and pull the lever, speeding off into the darkness.