=== Chapter 36 ===

Marjorie slowly pulls herself up to a seated position and barks out a laugh as she sees Amy and Marc. Amy then asks her as to how she is alive, and she says that she decided to explore the area a bit before falling into a trap and spotting Carl (the fake Gummo) blocking off the door. Marjorie then broke into a store room and chugged down a potion of Water Breathing to swim to an exit, not anticipating meeting an elder guardian along the way. Marc then asks her if she is okay, and she says that she is. Marc then asks if she found any way back up to the surface, and Marjorie says that she found any area that was blocked off by stone blocks, and Marc concludes that it might be a bubble column. As the three decide to work their way back to the surface, Amy and Marc apologize to Marjorie for not initially trusting her, but Marjorie scoffs it off as the two were preoccupied with their own troubles. The three then conclude that not only would they need to break the blocks blocking the bubble column, but they would also need to defeat an elder guardian, as Marjorie had already killed off one of the two. After drinking down some more potions of Water Breathing, the three go after the elder guardian.

=== Chapter 37 ===

Amy attacks the elder guardian with her sword, but the blow barely scratched it and starts to focus on her. Marc then takes advantage of the distraction, swinging his sword at the elder guardian, but it basically does no damage. Amy swims around to keep her distance from the elder guardian’s spikes, going to the left, while Marc swims to the right in an attempt to flank the elder guardian. Eventually, the two are able to kill it thanks to Marc landing a hit on it, followed by Amy delivering the final blow with her sword. They focus on breaking the blocks to get up to the surface, but they are still affected with Mining Fatigue. Marc then notices another elder guardian aiming its laser eye at them, so he grabs Amy and quickly pulls her away from its line of sight. The two then quickly kill the other elder guardian, but Marc’s body goes limp. Amy then carries Marc, using the last of her strength to pull him up onto the stone floor of the monument, but she herself submerged beneath the water as her strength faded, and shadows began to obscure her vision.

=== Chapter 38 ===

Marc then tells Amy to wake up, and she is seen lying on her side on the ground by the fake ocean monument. She then slowly pulls herself up to stand, noticing Carl having enchanted diamond swords positioned at Marjorie and Marc’s throats. Carl sneers at Amy, saying that he should’ve let her drown in the water. He then suggests to the three that they should take a walk, adding that he has "the perfect place" for them to think about what they have done. Carl then asks for Amy to line up with them, and she reluctantly obliges out of fear for her life. He then releases the enchanted diamond swords before pointing one at Marc, then Marjorie, and then Amy, suggesting that he’ll use them as bait for phantoms, making Amy realize that Carl had led other adventurers here to be killed. She considers talking to Carl about why he lost his place in the group that Marc was in, hoping it would get Carl to drop his guard long enough so they could escape, but Marc mouths at her to wait for the right moment. Carl then orders the three to start walking to the far end of the chamber, and they reluctantly do so.

=== Chapter 39 ===

After five-and-a-half minutes of walking, Carl eventually leads the three to a large room with six cages, saying to them that this is where they will stay until they die. Marc then mentions that he was wrong about one thing, that being breaking the news to Carl that he was exiled from the group, adding that it never bothered him, but that Carl wouldn’t learn his lesson. Carl then asks Marc as to what he is trying to say, and Marc says that he is a coward who leaves other adventurers to rot rather than face them one-on-one, noting that Glory’s Haven was nothing but a trap. Amy plays along and decides to be empathetic, saying to Marc that he is being unfair. Marc exaggeratedly rolls his eyes at that remark, knowing that Carl had kidnapped them and couldn’t get his revenge on others by outclassing them. Amy then takes a step to her right and draws Carl’s attention, saying that she understands where Carl is coming from being an ex-adventurer, adding that everything involved with adventuring is exhausting. Carl concurs, and then talks about the fake ocean monument that he had made after the group didn’t believe him that he had actually been to one. After a bit more talking, Marjorie tackles Carl from behind, making him slide into a cell, and Amy and Marc quickly stack blocks in front of the door to prevent him from escaping. Marjorie then takes one of Carl’s enchanted diamond swords, and then runs off, with Amy and Marc quickly following behind her.

=== Chapter 40 ===

Heading up some stairs, the three arrive at the labyrinth where Amy and Gummo had encountered some slimes before. As spiders and silverfish are heard in the distance, Amy and Marc reconcile, with Marc respecting her for going all this way to save him, adding that failing is a part of how they grow. After a hug, Carl screams from below as he scratches metal against stone. Marjorie, Marc, and Amy continue to run as fast as they can to escape Carl’s grasp.

=== Chapter 41 ===

The three soon make it out to the caverns, with Carl still cackling at them from behind. Eventually, they make it to the lush cave and head up the vine-covered walls as Marjorie points out that this is their only way out. As they continue to climb, Carl screams once more, hoping to find the three. Just then, Amy slips but quickly catches herself, which causes Tuna to meow loudly and give away their location. Carl looks up and starts climbing the vines as Marc and Marjorie take Tuna with them to the surface. Amy then focuses on going after Carl despite Marc’s reverent objections, lunging at him.

=== Chapter 42 ===

Amy careens into Carl, causing him to lose his grip and slip down to the floor of the cage. He asks her as to what she is doing, but she just mouths at Marc and Marjorie to keep moving. Carl then suggests to just let her fall, but Amy attempts to reason with him, saying that he took out his anger on the other people that he had killed, and that if they don’t escape from the phantoms, then they would both die. Carl prefers to let him and Amy die, and Marc then clings onto Carl’s side, yelling at him to let Amy go. Carl then loses his grip and falls, with Amy getting one of her heels stuck in the vines so she could pull back against his grip and get Marc close to the wall as they all attempt to get away from the oncoming phantoms. The three struggle against the other’s grip for a little while, and then Tuna descends onto Carl’s forehead, clinging to it and his chin with her claws and biting his nose, causing him to fall. Amy reaches out and grabs him, begging him to use his elytra and do the right thing. Carl, realizing his fate, decides to save Amy, gliding across the ground with his elytra before crashing into the ground. Amy curls up into a ball to protect Tuna, and then Carl’s voice trembles as he says that he can’t believe what is doing. He then sits up and looks at his hands, wondering why he is so angry, but Amy believes he finally knocked some sense into him about abusing his talent and learning to do better. Amy then stares up to the moon, with the phantoms now gone, and Marc points to his legs with a chuckle, knowing he lost another pair of leather pants in the struggle.

=== Chapter 43 ===

After a while, Carl eventually leads Amy, Marc, and Marjorie out of Glory’s Haven through the front door, breaking down the blocks that sealed them in. He apologizes to the three for taking so long as tears are still in his eyes. Marjorie walks out first, followed by Amy and Marc. The latter two prepare to head home, but Amy has an idea, and says to Carl that she has a question for him. At first, he thinks that he might be locked up, but then apologizes to the three for locking them up in here, adding that he had no idea what he was thinking. Amy accepts his apology, but says that he has to prove it as well.

=== Chapter 44 ===

Months later, Amy works with Carl, Marc, and Marjorie to make Glory’s Haven sort-of trap free, making upgrades to the mansion and closing off the most dangerous paths, knowing that adventurers appreciate moments that make their adrenaline spike. Marc even went ahead and killed off the remaining elder guardians as the so-called "story teller" of Glory’s Haven. Amy negotiates with Fergie, a leader of another adventuring group, about a map, warning her that if she didn’t buy it, she wouldn’t be able to go anywhere past the foyer, and Fergie eventually agrees to buy it. Amy’s parents weren’t convinced on her business venture at first, but their tune changed once her business proved to be successful; Amy made enough money in two months to help with the parent’s farm, so now they could relax and enjoy themselves instead of worrying about what fruit and vegetables to sell. Marjorie, Carl, Amy, and Marc then discuss about what is going on at Glory’s Haven, ranging from skeletons being in one of the mazes to rumors of an enderman being seen there. They decide to head back there to check out what is going on. Marc heads off to get himself ready, while Marjorie prepares to talk to Amy’s parents about it. As Amy finished putting in a window, the looming clouds in the distance feel like it’s about to rain, so she feels like it would be a perfect day to venture underground. The worst case scenario would mean another adventure, and even then, it doesn’t seem so bad for her anymore.

[[Category:Minecraft: House of Horrors chapters]]