<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: The Haven Trials}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 9 ===

The next day, back at school, Cece is sitting in her corner at the food court, looking at the map that she had printed out on Anarchia. It featured the entire area of Anarchia, complete with the exact locations of the three Haven Trials. The map was also split into three areas: Greenland, Desertland, and Mountainland. Greenland was home to a woodland mansion and had the first trial as killing an evoker. Desertland was home to the second trial, albeit no explanation was given. Mountainland appeared to be home to the third trial, but the player who made the map appeared to be unsure. Cece also realizes that teleporting to Mountainland isn’t allowed, meaning that she would have to complete the first two trials in order to possibly do so. Just then, the bell rings to signal the end of break time, and Cece packs up the map as she heads back to class. Later, at the end of the school day, Cece is looking over the map in the school parking lot when Joachim bumps into her and looks at the map. Cece quickly stuffs it into her backpack, but decides to explain to Joachim about the situation that had been going on about her and Reesa and the server in general. Joachim then offers to look at the map again, and Cece reluctantly accepts. Joachim then mentions to Cece about the dark forest near the first trial, saying that she should build a shelter underground close by so she could be able to teleport between the shelter and the other trials. Cece thanks Joachim for the help, and Joachim mentions that he can be called Jo from then on. He then mentions as to how he used to play Minecraft with his group of friends, but stopped playing it when his friends moved on to other interests. Just then, Iya shows up and Cece and Jo soon part ways. Iya then asks Cece about her new friend and waves at Jo, much to Cece’s embarrassment.

=== Chapter 10 ===

Switching to Cece’s POV, she then launches Minecraft and soon heads back into Anarchia. She then teleports an area just southeast of the woodland mansion that is home to the first of the Haven Trials. Cece then mines out a shelter beside a rise that is covered by grass while also gathering wood to make a crafting table and four chests. To make sure she doesn’t lose her inventory when she dies, Cece deposits everything into the chests with the exception of the blocks of dirt and sand, not before filling up her hunger bar with some steak, an apple, and some sweet berries. She appears to now be prepared to attack the evoker in the woodland mansion.

=== Chapter 11 ===

Cece then makes sure she has the right resources and information, which she got from watching videos about attacking evokers. She plans on staying as far away from the evoker as possible due to them attacking with evoker fangs. One video she saw focused on sneaking up on the evoker by shooting at them from outside the mansion, and although Cece thinks it’s a good idea, she says that she is terrible at aiming with a bow and fighting as a whole. Nonetheless, Cece is ready, and soon teleports to just outside the woodland mansion. She starts climbing up a tree next to the mansion, and soon is on the roof of the mansion. Cece then looks down to peek at a window, soon noticing an evoker in the far corner of a room. She fires an arrow at it, hitting it in the back. Just then, four other players who were dressed in camouflage climb up to the roof of the mansion and focus on killing Cranky, Cece’s pet cat that had seemingly teleported up there without her noticing. One of the players soon succumbs to the evoker fangs, and not long after, the evoker makes it up to the roof of the mansion.

=== Chapter 12 ===

The evoker places himself between Cece/Cranky and the three other players, and soon starts summoning vexes. Cece is able to fire an arrow at the evoker anyway, successfully hitting it, and soon focuses on killing the vexes. The evoker then summons vexes to attack the other players and then turns its attention toward Cece/Cranky, summoning evoker fangs at Cranky, who appears to have been attacked, but actually takes no damage from it. Cece then jumps down into the room through the broken window to kill off a lone vex before heading back up to the roof. She fires an arrow at the evoker from her hiding place, being successful in hitting it. Just then, one of the other players fires an arrow at Cece, but Cranky suddenly flies across her to open its mouth and swallow the arrow whole. Everyone is shocked about what had just happened, and Cece soon realizes that Cranky protects her from other players. Nonetheless, Cece ends up killing the evoker, completing the first Haven Trial. The three other players, Arrow Boy, Axe Boy, and Sword Girl, are angry at Cece about killing the evoker, so they plan to kill her. Just then, WereDragon appears and kills Arrow Boy with a shot from a bow and arrow. Axe Boy and Sword Girl then scurry off as WereDragon has Cece pick up the totem of undying that the evoker had dropped, saying to her that the totem basically gives her another life. WereDragon then says that Cranky is named the "Tailsman of Chance", much to Cece’s bewilderment. Cece then suggests teleporting back to her own base, but WereDragon says that because she had started completing the trials, she is no longer allowed to teleport and instead has to traverse solely on foot.

=== Chapter 13 ===

Cece and WereDragon make it through the dark forest, with the latter killing several hostile mobs along the way. The two soon make it back to the open grassland, and it isn’t long before Cece finds her underground base. Although WereDragon is impressed by it, they inform Cece that she’ll have to head back to the wastelands for the second trial, which involves killing a wither. At this point, Cece considers giving up altogether, but WereDragon gives her a pep talk about how long she had survived in Anarchia. WereDragon also mentions to Cece that her pet cat, Cranky, is actually a passive mob that had glitched out while the Ocury was installing mods, hence as to the reason why it was swallowing arrows that were aimed at Cece. WereDragon also says that the only way that Cranky can no longer protect its owner is if the owner is killed or separated from it for long enough for another person to gain its trust. Cece then asks WereDragon as to how long they had been here, and they mention that they had been here long enough to complete the first two Haven Trials, and even made it to the third trial. Cece wonders as to what is part of the third trial, but WereDragon says that they didn’t know because of the numerous mobs that spawned there. Cece then wonders as to why WereDragon just didn’t go back to the third trial, and WereDragon says that a player will need help to be able to get through it. Out of the blue, Cece asks WereDragon if they want to be her friend as long as they don’t kill her again. WereDragon then says that they have a code: never kill the same Anarchian more than three times; they say its a magic number. WereDragon then says that they’ll think about it as they go AFK. Cece then resets her spawn point, hoping that WereDragon will be here upon getting back into the game.

=== Chapter 14 ===

One day, Cece and Jo are sitting together at the food court at school. Cece is eating some club sandwiches that Iya had made, while Jo is eating a few meat pies and a Coke. Jo asks Cece if he can take a bite of a club sandwich, and Cece agrees. Jo does so and approves of it, saying that it tastes fancy. Cece then mentions about how she and Reesa would meet on the weekends and eat club sandwiches while they played Minecraft. Jo seems more interested as he has another bite of the sandwich, mentioning that he is a heavy eater despite not growing in height or gaining weight. Cece then asks Jo if he can come over to her place, and he accepts. After a few minutes of silence, Jo then asks about what is going on in Anarchia, and Cece mentions everything that had happened up until preparing for the second trial with the wither. Jo is surprised that Cece was able to find an ally that could help her, and says that even if she doesn’t end up killing the wither, that she still has friends, referring to WereDragon and himself. Just then, the five-minute warning bell for break time rings. Jo stuffs some meat pies in his mouth, which makes Cece laugh.

=== Chapter 15 ===

On a Saturday in the Gemshore Estate, Cece is assisting Iya with peeling plantains for some fried rice that Iya is cooking. Not long after, Baba enters through the front door with Jo, saying that Jo was being picked on by the others of Gemshore because of what he is wearing, that being well-dressed with handmade slippers. Cece asks Jo if he would like something to drink; he requests a glass of water. Baba then asks Jo as to why his parents didn’t wait after dropping him off, and Jo mentions that he took a bus to get here, shocking everybody. Iya wonders as to what his parents would think, and Jo mentions that he hasn’t seen his parents in a long time; instead he lives with his grandma who is unable to drive, which is why he takes public transportation. The conversation after that started to become awkward, so Iya allowed Cece and Jo to head outside to play until lunch was ready. Cece and Jo head to the garage to retrieve a bike, with the latter saying that he doesn’t know how to ride one. Cece decides to show Jo how to ride one, but the other kids of Gemshore Estate begin mocking the two. The mocking made Cece so fed up that she soon decided to put the bike away, much to Jo’s disappointment. Lunch goes by without incident. Baba then suggest that the two play some video games, but Jo decides to leave, much to Cece’s disappointment. She apologizes for what had happened earlier, but Jo decides to put on a smile, happy that she had tried to make him feel welcome. As he leaves, Cece heads back in and hugs her parents, who feel concerned about Jo.

=== Chapter 16 ===

On the Monday after, Cece notices that Jo is quieter than usual, so by break time, she decides to cheer him up with club sandwiches and some fruit juice that she had bought from the canteen. When Cece heads over to talk to Jo, she notices three girl classmates beside him, one of them being Ofure. Jo asks for Ofure to stop bothering him, but she refuses. Jo then attempts to leave, but Ofure doesn’t allow him to do so. Cece then says to Ofure to leave him alone and to mind her own business. Ofure responds by attempting to slap Cece’s hand, but Cece came prepared. She had already taken the caps off of the bottles of hibiscus juice, and when Ofure attempted to attack her, she pressed down on the bottles, releasing the juice all over Ofure’s hair, face, and uniform. Just then, Mr. Gbenga, the math teacher, intervenes, scolds Ofure about the soaked uniform, and sends her to the staff room. Mr. Gbenga appreciates Cece for standing up for Jo and lets her off with a warning. Cece and Jo then eat together, having some club sandwiches.

Later, after school, Cece is back in Minecraft, on the Anarchia server. WereDragon is nowhere to be found, so Cece takes out her map noting the location of the second Haven Trial, feeling relieved that she has the totem of undying. Just then, WereDragon shows up and explains to Cece as to how the totem of undying works. They then give Cece some items to use, knowing that they can’t help Cece when battling the wither. The items consist of several raw iron, food, and cobblestone. The cobblestone is used to craft a furnace, which is used to smelt the raw iron into iron ingots. The iron ingots are then used to craft some iron armor and tools. WereDragon then also gives Cece potions of fire resistance and regeneration to use. WereDragon then says that they could’ve gotten diamond, but there apparently isn’t any throughout Anarchia. The two then discuss about friendship, with WereDragon speculating that Reesa might’ve just dumped Cece into this server to fend for herself. Cece rebuttals, saying that although friendship can be difficult, friends have to work together through hard times to make it better in the end. The two then leave the underground base, ready to kill the wither.