=== Chapter 15 ===

As the group continue being pushed downward by the water rushing at them, they notice zombies in the tunnel directly ahead of them. Bobbie fumbles for her sword to attack one of them, but soon recognizes it as Clarke, the librarian from her village. Bobbie shouts at Ben for a golden apple just as she shatters a potion of Weakness across Clarke’s head, followed by Ben shoving a golden apple into its mouth. Bobbie then notices another zombie villager nearby, so Ben attacks a regular zombie to knock it out of the way. Bobbie then tosses a splash potion of Weakness at the zombie villager, which directly hits it, but the force of Bobbie’s throw knocks her off her feet as the water is moving very fast. It isn’t long before the entire group fall down a waterfall, leaving Bobbie nothing to do but scream.

=== Chapter 16 ===

The group end up falling into a square pit that is lined with obsidian, making Logan realize that someone had made it instead of it being naturally generated. He then attempts to climb out by going up the waterfall, but the flow of water cuts off just before he reaches the top, making him fall back into the pit. Hatchet and Flip then appear, taunting the group, making Logan go after them by placing down the cobblestone he has to make a staircase to the top. Just then, Bobbie suddenly gets worried and whispers to Benjamin as to what happened to the zombies. Benjamin’s eyes go wide as he looks down into the water, followed by the hand of a drowned grabbing Bobbie’s leg and pulling her in.

=== Chapter 17 ===

Meanwhile, Ben was separated from the others, having washed up on a patch of dirt. He sets up a torch on a wall nearby and waits for Bobbie or Johnny to show up, but minutes pass with no sight of them, leaving him no choice but to go deeper into the mine. Just then, Ben hears a hissing sound of a creeper directly behind him and knocks it back with his sword just before it explodes, destroying the ground directly under him. Ben ends up falling into cobwebs and panics as he struggles to get free. Just then, numerous cave spiders turn to gaze at him.

=== Chapter 18 ===

Back with Bobbie, Benjamin, and Johnny, as the zombies transform into drowned, Clarke and the cleric villager form Savannaton flail in fear, and Benjamin is also on the verge of going into a panic. Logan is continuing his slow ascent to go after Hatchet and Flip, as the latter fires a warning shot at everyone else in the obsidian pit. Bobbie is also to fend off a drowned underwater and kicks quickly to the surface, gasping for air. She tells for Benjamin to protect the villagers before being taken underwater by another drowned. Fortunately, one of Flip’s arrows strikes the drowned in the back, allowing Bobbie to pull out her netherite sword. Johnny also attacks one of the drowned by biting it, and Bobbie kills the others with relative ease, swimming back up to the surface once more. Flip then says that he can’t get a clear shot down into the pit, so Hatchet suggests to shoot down Logan instead. Bobbie, having had enough of being stuck down here, starts mining upward with her diamond pickaxe, with Benjamin and Johnny following close behind.

=== Chapter 19 ===

Back with Ben, he is still hacking his way out of the webs with his diamond sword enchanted with Bane of Arthropods, nicknamed "Arthropox". Fortunately, although his feet were stuck in the webs, his hands were free, and he attacks the first cave spider, killing it in two hits. He continues attacking as many cave spiders that he comes across, eventually coming to a light at the end of the mineshaft that belong to a cave spider spawner. Eventually, Ben’s sword breaks after killing a cave spider, and he immediately switches to his pickaxe to destroy the spawner. This made Ben a bit braver, overcoming his fear and no longer feeling that he needed help to feel brave.

=== Chapter 20 ===

Back with Benjamin, Bobbie, and Johnny, Benjamin uses his pickaxe to mine upward, stopping the water flowing down every few blocks by placing down blocks. They soon head back up to the mineshaft that they had been walking through before the water overtook them and made them fall info the obsidian pit. Turning around the corner, they notice that Logan had already made Hatchet and Flip surrender, with their backs to the wall, their hands on their heads, and their weapons laid down at Logan’s feet. Hatchet then shows Logan the journal that he previously had, and Logan asks as to how she got that. She says that Bobbie gave it to her, making Logan get mad at Bobbie and ask her as to why she would give it to Hatchet in the first place. Bobbie stands her ground, saying that she only showed Hatchet and Flip the contents of the journal to convince them to betray him and join her when they were enemies. Hatchet and Flip seemingly agree, telling Logan about the things he wrote down about them in his journal, with Bobbie asking for him to apologize, and Logan asking for her to do so in return. They both refuse, with Bobbie saying that her actions were justified, and Logan saying that he was airing out his feeling privately. Hatchet and Flip then leave, wading through the water on the other side of the wall. The others begin heading upward soon after.

=== Chapter 21 ===

The group (Bobbie, Benjamin, Logan, and Johnny) reach the surface just as the sun begins to rise over the horizon. Bobbie then shouts out for Ben, who has also reached the surface not far behind them. She asks as to what happened, and he says that he accomplished his mission, showing Bobbie a stack of sixty-four spider eyes he collected, which is enough to brew a dozen Weakness potions. Bobbie then notices a wither rose nearby, understanding that the Wither must’ve been through this area. As the sun continues to rise, she also realizes that everyone will need to sleep by tomorrow night to avoid being attacked by phantoms, and Bobbie sends Clarke and the cleric villager from Savannaton on the dirt path back to where Avery is. Bobbie and Logan then get into a brief argument about the latter putting down a lot of obstacles, as well as being considered a liability. Cooler heads prevail, however, as Bobbie agrees that Logan being with them is their best chance they have to kill the Wither, knowing that he’ll have until it is killed to figure out their differences.

[[Category:Minecraft: Zombies Unleashed! chapters]]