<noinclude>{{fiction|second|chapter|Minecraft: Stonesword Saga/To Bee, Or Not to Bee!}}</noinclude>

=== Chapter 8: Alas, Poor Buzby! We Hardly Knew Ye. (Sniff.) ===

Harper and Theo rush over to the crate of bees, where they notice that some of the bees are having trouble flying. Harper notices one drop right to the ground after it attempts to fly, and she and Theo work carefully to place the bees back on top of the hive. Jodi then comes by and shows them a bee that had already died. Harper then rushes inside to see Doc, informing her of the situation, and shows her a bee that was still alive, yet very still. Doc examines the bee under a homemade microscope, explaining that she is looking for parasites (red mites that affix themselves to the bee’s body), but she finds nothing. She then heads back over to the hive along with Harper to inspect it, while the others decide to give the bee a proper burial. Harper puts the bee in a matchbox, while Theo digs up a tiny grave at the base of a nearby tree. The group (Jodi, Po, Morgan, Theo, and Harper) pay their respects to the bee as Harper vows to find out why the bee died in the first place.

=== Chapter 9: Let’s Give Nature a Hand… After All, Nature Gave Us Hands to Start With! ===

Later, back in Minecraft, the group (Jodi, Po, Morgan, Theo, Harper, and Ash) work to breed bees. They gather up some flowers from nearby biomes, which make some of the bees flutter around them and collect pollen, and then Harper collects honeycomb from the beehive by nightfall after Morgan places a campfire underneath it. Just then, a zombie appears and attempts to attack Harper, but the bee attacks the zombie with its stinger. The zombie is eventually killed, but the bee also dies due to loosing its stinger, making the group realize that they need to breed more bees.

=== Chapter 10: Honeybees Don’t Get Weekends Off, but They Don’t Get Pop Quizzes, Either! ===

In the real world, Harper and her friends decide to head over to the town orchard over the weekend, where they find Mr. Shane tending to his beehives. Harper explains to him that the bees in the crate that he left at school are dying, and Mr. Shane explains to Harper about the importance of bees to the environment, as well as how bees get nectar and pollen from flowers. He then explains that when humans came along, things started to get complicated, as he heads over to an area tangled with tall grass, weeds, and wildflowers. Mr. Shane explains that the bees need natural flora like this to survive, but that the usage of herbicides, fungicides, and pesticides are killing off the bees. Theo suddenly becomes pale upon hearing this, realizing that the gardening and landscaping club at school is using them.

=== Chapter 11: Clash of the Teachers–or Just Another Epic School Day at Woodsword?! ===

Early on Monday morning, Theo and Harper arrive early to school to talk with Ms. Minerva about no longer using chemicals on the school lawn. Doc soon shows up, mentioning about the bee that had died a few days ago, and begins to suggest using a fertilizer formula with no harmful chemicals, but it isn’t long before she and Ms. Minerva begin to have a debate on chemicals. The two are so coiled up in heated discussion that they didn’t notice that Theo and Harper had already left the room.

=== Chapter 12: A Spelling Bee to Remember! If Anyone (Including the Bees) Gets Out Alive… ===

Later, back in Minecraft, the group (Jodi, Morgan, Po, Theo, and Harper) decide to move some of the flowers closer to the beehives. By then, the bees begin to spell out their message, starting with the word "PROTECT". Just then, several spiders appear, but the group sans Harper attack and kill them with ease as she watches the bees make their message: "PROTECT THE BALANCE". Harper wonders as to what that means, but just then, the bees become angry and attack her as spiders close in from the other side.

=== Chapter 13: Angry Bees to the Left of Me! Spiders to the Right! (But at Least There’s Good Symmetry!) ===

Harper quickly rejoins the group as Morgan asks as to what she did. She says that she did nothing as she just watched the bees spell out their message. Theo angrily begins to wonder as to where the spiders are coming from, and Jodi points toward a hole in the ground nearby. The group soon find a spider dungeon in the hole. Theo begins to destroy it, but Harper yells at him to stop, saying that the bee’s message of protecting the balance means that they should stop attacking the spiders. Theo reluctantly complies, and the group have no choice but to leave the forest as they head toward a taiga biome. The spiders had already given up the chase, but the bees pursue the group to the very edge of the forest. Just then, the bees begin to do a dance, and once again make the shape of the Evoker King. This time, the bees buzz their words as they "say" to the group that they thank them for restoring the balance to the forest. Theo then asks about the Fault, and the bees "say" to the group to find a golem. The bees then fuse together in a flash of light to form a kaleidoscope of butterflies, leaving behind the left arm of the Evoker King in their place.

=== Chapter 14: All’s Well That Ends Well… Except for That Big Hole in the Sky. ===

A few days later, in the real world at school, Harper is now a part of the Woodsword Gardening and Landscaping Club. The club is in front of the new garden set up at Woodsword, with Shelly Silver, the class president, stating that the garden is now free of chemicals. Ms. Minerva adds that the plants for the garden are native to the Woodsword area, and that any weeds found will now be pulled out by hand. Meanwhile, Doc and Mr. Shane are retrieving the crate of bees from Stonesword and loading it back on Mr. Shane’s truck, with the latter saying that he’ll be back next year to show off the bees again, but he decides to leave behind a tray of bees, including a queen bee, so that can start a colony of their own. Later, in Minecraft, the group (Jodi, Morgan, Po, Harper, Theo, and Ash) notice that the Fault has gotten even bigger. They follow a butterfly, which leads them to several butterflies flying around a nether portal, which makes Morgan realizes that the golem that they are looking for is in the Nether.