This page lists '''versions of {{el|be}}''' which are currently assumed to be missing; i.e. there is definitive proof that these versions exist, however copies of said version are not available through publicly-accessible unofficial archives.

== Full list ==
=== Alpha ===
* [[Pocket Edition Demo|Demo]] (never released to the public)
* [[Pocket Edition v0.8.2 alpha|v0.8.2]]
* [[Pocket Edition v0.12.0.1 alpha|v0.12.0.1]]
* [[Pocket Edition v0.15.5|v0.15.5]]

=== Full release ===

* [[Bedrock Edition Preview 26.0.43|Preview 26.0.43]] (never released to the public)

== Skipped version numbers ==
{{Expand section}}
{{wip|section=1}}

Versions labeled "definite version skip" are confirmed to be skipped version numbers as opposed to the possibility of simply being an undocumented and unarchived version of the game.

''Bedrock Edition'' minor version numbers from 1.14 onwards do not increment entirely sequentially; each digit has semantic meaning, so 1.14.1 can be followed by 1.14.10 which can be followed by 1.14.20, with no 'skips' involved.
;0.3.1
;0.12.0
:Definite version skip for ''Pocket Edition'', released normally on ''Windows 10 Edition''.
;Pocket Edition Realms alpha build 3
;1.1.6
;1.2.12
;1.2.20/1.3.0
:Definite version skip. Released as [[Bedrock Edition 1.4.0|1.4.0]].
;1.15.0
:Definite version skip. Released as [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.0|1.16.0]] to match {{JE}}.
;1.16.30
;1.17.20
:Definite version skip. Released as [[1.17.30]].
;1.18.20
:Definite version skip. Released as [[1.18.30]].
;1.19.82
;1.20.20
:Definite version skip. Released as [[1.20.30]].
;1.21.10
:Definite version skip. Released as [[1.21.20]].
;1.21.83
;1.21.110
:Definite version skip. Released as [[1.21.111]].

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|general}}

[[Category:Bedrock Edition]]
[[Category:Bedrock Edition versions]]

[[pt:Versões ausentes da Edição Bedrock]]
[[ko:누락된 Bedrock Edition 버전]]
[[uk:Загублені версії (Bedrock Edition)]]