<!-- Sam, as of the time of this being posted, does not have a gender. As such, they/them pronouns must be used at all times. Any attempt to change the wording to favor a particular gender will be considered as vandalism and be immediately reverted. -->

=== Beware the Creeper! ===

[[Sam]] introduces themselves to the reader just as a [[creeper]] blows up their campsite. To make sure they are more prepared, they decide to learn more about the creeper, and hostile mobs in general. Sam collects more [[wood]] and builds a house before nightfall, and then mines iron the next day to craft some [[iron armor]] to protect themselves. Sam also suspects that creepers spawn in the dark, so they place [[torches]] around their house to prevent them from spawning. Despite this, Sam decides to venture out into the darkness, soon coming across a creeper nearby in a [[forest]]. They hide behind a tree as the creeper approaches, and then attacks the creeper, ultimately killing it and making it drop [[gunpowder]]. Sam decides to kill more creepers to obtain more gunpowder, ultimately using it with [[sand]] to craft [[TNT]]. The next day, Sam comes across a [[village]] and finds their first [[diamond]] in a [[chest]]. They also tame a [[cat]], which helps to scare creepers away. A [[skeleton]] then appears and starts attacking Sam, but the creeper takes the blunt of the [[arrows]] and drops a [[music disc]] when killed. Sam picks up the music disc, kills off the skeleton, and then feeds fish to their cat before taking shelter in a house in the village that night. Some time later, Sam crafts a [[jukebox]] and begins dancing to the music from the music disc.

=== I Survived a Skeleton! ===

Sam once again introduces themself to the reader as they mine inside a [[cave]]. Just then, skeletons shoot at them, having spawned thanks to a nearby [[Monster Spawner|mob spawner]]. Sam decides to head out of the cave into daylight, fortunately allowing them to buy some time as the skeletons that were after them burn up under the sun. Sam decides to craft some iron armor and a [[shield]] at home before heading off to a snowy area that night, coming across some [[strays]]. After blocking one of their arrows with a shield, Sam kills one of them and takes their bow before hurrying back home to build an observation tower the following day. Later, a thunderstorm rolls in, and despite the hostile mobs, Sam feels safe up in the tower. As the storm passes, Sam notices a [[skeleton horse]] in the distance and checks on it, but [[lightning]] strikes it, turning it into a skeleton trap horseman, while spawning three others. Sam retreats to the observation tower as the skeletons shoot at them, but they eventually get the upper hand (literally) and kill the skeletons. Sam then puts on an enchanted [[helmet]] that one of the skeletons left behind, along with iron armor, and equips themself with their shield and an enchanted [[bow]] from another killed skeleton, and then kills the skeletons spawning in the [[Monster Room|dungeon]] that is home to the spawner. Sam then finds a [[saddle]] in the dungeon [[chest]] before using it on a skeleton horse, saying to the reader that they feel like they can take on anything.

=== Mysterious Mooshroom! ===

Sam sets off from their camp, hoping to find as many different [[biomes]] as they can. They decide to only bring their tools so they have plenty of room in their inventory "to bring back treasures." They go through [[mountains]], an old-growth [[forest]], and a [[flower forest]], before coming to a shore and noticing an [[Mushroom Fields|island]] in the distance that had [[Huge mushroom|trees]] that "weren’t shaped like other [[trees]]." Sam then crafts a [[boat]] and heads toward the island, soon noticing that it is a mushroom biome, and upon making it to said island, soon discovers a [[mooshroom]]. Sam then empties the water from their [[bucket]] and milks the mooshroom for [[Milk Bucket|milk]], followed by using a [[bowl]] on it for [[mushroom stew]]. Just then, the sun starts to set, and Sam prepares themselves for any hostile mobs that could spawn, but is surprised when not a single hostile mob spawns at all. The following morning, they tempt a mooshroom with wheat onto their boat and bring it back home just as a thunderstorm starts to roll in. After Sam brings the mooshroom to a fenced area near their house, they head inside as it starts to rain, and then, lighting strikes just outside their house. When the storm clears, Sam notices that the mooshroom has turned into a brown mooshroom, realizing that there are "still many mysteries" for them to explore in this world.

=== The Guardian of the Depths! ===

Sam is seen venturing across a vast ocean when they notice a dark shape beneath the water. They dive in to take a peek, revealing an [[ocean monument]]. They attempt to mine out some [[prismarine]], but are spooked by the ghost of the [[elder guardian]], being affected with [[Mining Fatigue]] as a result. Sam is then attacked by [[guardians]], but are able to fend them off long enough to take a closer look at the monument before darting back to the surface to catch their breath. Upon getting back into their boat, they catch a [[pufferfish]] with a [[fishing rod]] before rowing back to land. Sam then enchants their helmet with [[Respiration]] and also brews some [[potions of Water Breathing]] before heading back to the ocean monument, coming face-to-face with the elder guardian. They attempt to swim away, but soon find the elder guardian blocking the only way out of the monument. Fortunately, Sam ends up killing it and immediately swims back to the surface. Getting back into their boat, they are surprised to see that the loot from killing the elder guardian was a [[wet sponge]]. Nonetheless, they feel hopeful in finding a use for it, knowing that they’d be back to the monument soon anyway to get more prismarine and sponges.

=== Journey of the Snow Golem ===

Sam is then seen climbing up the side of a cliff, soon finding themselves in some [[windswept hills]]. It starts to [[Snowfall|snow]], so they take out their [[shovel]] to gather snowballs and craft them into [[Snow Block|snow blocks]]. They then place a snow block on top of another one, knowing that they need a head with a face, and they soon fins a [[pumpkin]] patch on a hillside. Sam then uses their [[shears]] to [[Carved Pumpkin|carve]] a face into one of the pumpkins, and then carefully places it on top of the two snow blocks; it then comes to life as a [[snow golem]]. They then attach a [[lead]] to the snow golem, making it follow them home as the golem leaves a trail of [[snow]]. Along the way home, they take shelter from a rainstorm to avoid the golem being damaged, as well as narrowly avoid a pool of [[lava]]. Later on, the [[sun]] sets, and the snow golem throws a snowball toward Sam. They wonder as to why, but they duck out of the way just in time to see the [[snowball]] hit a nearby creeper. Sam then takes down the creeper, now realizing that they have a bodyguard of sorts to protect them.

=== I Escaped an Enderman! ===

Sam is seen building an oak fence near their home when they notice a [[grass block]] is missing from their field, along with purple sparkles floating around them. They then hear a sound that wasn’t like anything that they had heard before, and turn around slowly to notice that an [[enderman]] is behind them. Sam takes shelter under a nearby tree, but the enderman remains still. That is, until Sam looks into its eyes, making the enderman screech. Sam braces for them to be attacked, but soon realizes that they are safe underneath the tree, as the enderman is too tall to reach them. Sam then takes out their bow to shoot the enderman with an arrow, but it dodges it quickly. Just then, it starts to rain, and they watch as the enderman teleports erratically before heading inside their home for the night.

The next morning, Sam decides to bring a [[water bucket]] as they leave home, soon going after the enderman. Sam then pours their bucket on the ground and stands in the middle of the puddle, noticing that the enderman isn’t attempting to go any close to them. Sam then eventually kills the enderman and picks up the [[ender pearl]] that had dropped. They then start to run home, albeit they accidentally throw the ender pearl, causing them to teleport to the front of their doorstep, which makes Sam realize throwing the ender pearl made them teleport, just like an enderman can. They then kill some more enderman to obtain some more ender pearls, and use them to teleport to other places quickly, such as going across a [[canyon]]. Despite [[endermites]] having a chance of spawning from thrown ender pearls, Sam also realizes that there was something that was mysterious about ender pearls, and had a feeling that they’d learn more about them after doing some research.

=== Buzzing Beehive! ===

Sam finds a [[cherry grove]], which is a biome that they have never seen before. They then come across a [[bee]] that landed on the [[pink petals]] next to a [[cherry]] tree, watching it fly away as it is covered in pollen. Sam follows the bee until it reaches a [[Bee Nest|nest]], wondering if they could grab the nest and bring it home. They attempt to mine it with their [[axe]], but angry bees pop out and attempt to swarm them, forcing Sam to run home. The next day, Sam is farming at their base when a bee goes over their [[flowers]] before going into a nest nearby. Sam attempts to collect honey from the nest, but the angry bees pop out once more. This time around, Sam isn’t fast enough to get away, and ends up being stung in their right arm, causing them to be poisoned. Fortunately, they drink the [[Honey Bottle|honey]] from their bottle to cure themselves right away. Sam then watches the bees from a distance as they notice a [[campfire]] next to them, wondering if the smoke will calm the bees, Being careful, Sam builds another campfire directly under the nest, and Sam carefully obtains a [[honeycomb]]. Fortunately, the bees don’t get angry as Sam uses the honeycomb with dye to craft candles. They then notice a bee buzzing over their crops and dropping pollen on them to make them grow faster. Sam feels happy that they kept the bees happy, and grows some more flowers for the bees to pollinate.

<noinclude>
[[Category:Fiction content]]
</noinclude>