{{distinguish|Mojam|Mojang}}

'''ModJam''' is a form of community event where participants create fan-made content within a set period of time. These events typically focus on Java Edition mods, but maps, textures, and mod packs have all been included to various degrees. It is widely accepted that [[Michael Stoyke|Searge]] is the originator of this term within the Minecraft community.

== ModJam ==

=== ModJam 1 ===
ModJam 1 was the first ModJam hosted by [[Searge]] during early 2013.

==== Results ====
Note: This list contains only the first three places of the competition.
{| class="wikitable"
|+
!Place
!Name<ref>{{ytl|HdmbYqo3IHE|Modjam Results|direwolf20|April 11, 2013|channelid=UC_ViSsVg_3JUDyLS3E2Un5g}}</ref>
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Translocators
|ChickenBones
|-
|2.
|Hats
|iChun
|-
|3.
|Atum
|Shadowclaimer, RebelKeithy
|}

=== ModJam 2 ===
ModJam 2 was the second ModJam hosted by Searge during mid-2013.

==== Results ====
There is no valid information available on the results of the first three places. A complete list of all submitted mods can be found [[ftb:ModJam 2|here]].

=== ModJam 3 ===
ModJam 3 was the third ModJam hosted by Searge during December 2013. This was the first event to include a map-making section alongside the modding contest.

==== Results ====
Note: This list contains only the first three places of the competiton.
{| class="wikitable"
|+Mods
!Place
!Name<ref name="reddit.com">https://www.reddit.com/r/feedthebeast/comments/1vjqmr/modjam_results/</ref>
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Sync
|iChun
|-
|2.
|Steve's Factory Manager
|Vswe
|-
|3.
|Chickenbones Mod
|immibis
|}
{| class="wikitable"
|+Maps
!Place
!Name<ref name="reddit.com"/>
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Mattabytes
|Mattabase's Team
|-
|2.
|Adventure in Time and Space
|minerdave409
|-
|3.
|Looper
|Team MJ3W
|}

=== ModJam 4 ===
ModJam 4 was the fourth ModJam hosted by Searge during early 2014.

==== Results ====
This was the first ModJam where results were calculated based on the votes of the participants rather than the other players. Note: This list contains only the first three places and only the results of the first category of the competiton.
{| class="wikitable"
|+Mods
!Place
!Name<ref name="web.archive.org">https://web.archive.org/web/20140612010709/http://mcp.ocean-labs.de/modjam/voteresults.php</ref>
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Electromagnetic Coherence
|calclavia, Cyanidex
|-
|2.
|Corruption
|kihira
|-
|3.
|It Fell From The Sky
|iChun
|}
{| class="wikitable"
|+Maps
!Place
!Name<ref name="web.archive.org"/>
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Aggravated Armies
|tewkesape (later theo_the_ape)
|-
|2.
|Remote Antispleef
|Searge (?)
|-
|3.
|Monolith
|(unknown)
|}

=== ModJam 5 ===
ModJam 5 was the fifth ModJam hosted by Searge during early 2018.

==== Results ====
This was the first ModJam where results for both maps and mods were calculated separately for solo and team creations. Note: This list contains only the first three places and only the results of the first category of the competiton.
{| class="wikitable"
|+Solo Mods
!Place
!Name
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Globe<ref name="1st">https://twitter.com/SeargeDP/status/986248080839323648</ref>
|iChun
|-
|2.
|World Paint<ref name="2nd">https://twitter.com/SeargeDP/status/986245704241860608</ref>
|Wyn Price
|-
|3.
|Portality<ref name="3rd">https://twitter.com/SeargeDP/status/986242801322127362</ref>
|Buuz135
|}
{| class="wikitable"
|+Team Mods
!Place
!Name
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Practical Space Fireworks<ref name="1st"/>
|ExpensiveKoala, gegy1000, tterrag
|-
|2.
|Camera Obscura<ref name="2nd"/>
|ProfMobius, RazzleberryFox, Cojomax99
|-
|3.
|Crystals<ref name="3rd"/>
|amadornes, therealfarfetchd
|}
{| class="wikitable"
|+Solo Maps
!Place
!Name
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Modalympics<ref name="1st"/>
|theo_the_ape (formerly tewkesape)
|-
|2.
|Planetary Pillager<ref name="2nd"/>
|Chromatis
|-
|3.
|Dash Digger<ref name="3rd"/>
|Dieuwt
|-
|3.
|Dreadnaught<ref name="3rd"/>
|abrightmoore
|}
{| class="wikitable"
|+Team Maps
!Place
!Name
!Creator(s)
|-
|1.
|Exploria<ref name="1st"/>
|Pollieboy, Vilder50
|-
|2.
|One Hit Wonder<ref name="2nd"/>
|Jigarbov, Cold Fusion
|-
|3.
|Sky Control<ref name="3rd"/>
|Chopper2112, marhjo, Chumbleweasel, BlendedSpider, DarkPiep
|}

== Spooky Jam ==

=== Spooky Jam 2017 ===
Spooky Jam 2017 was the first Spooky Jam hosted by Darkhax during October 2017. This was a mod-making event, but not a competition. The mods had to be relevant to the season and/or Halloween.

==== Mods created ====
* CTD Twickery (by TheMasterGeneral)
* Kelpie (by Darkhax)
* Nightmares (by Darkhax)
* Proxy's Spooky Biomes (by ProxyNeko)
* SpookyCraft (by UpcraftLP, EPIIC_THUNDERCAT, Subaraki)
* Trumpet Skeleton (by JamiesWhiteShirt)

=== Spooky Jam 2018 ===
Spooky Jam 2018 was the second Spooky Jam hosted by Darkhax during October 2018. This was a mod-making event, but not a competition. The mods had to be relevant to the season and/or Halloween.

==== Mods created ====
* Harvester's Night (by Lykrast)
* Scarecrows (by bl4ckscor3)
* Eyes in the Darkness (by gigaherz)
* Jack-O'-Launcher (by ochotonida)
* Witchery Style Vampirism (by spectre0987)
* Costume (by Darkhax, WolfyPaws)
* Discarnate (by Virtuoel)
* Sanity (by tikkadatla)
* SkeletalBand (by Wyn Price)
* The Midnight (by Cipher_Zero_X, gegy1000, Martacus, Endergized)
* PumpkinCarve (by jaredlll08)
* Eerie Entites (by jaredlll08, Darkhax)
* Shadowrite (by TheCallunxz)
* Stygian End: Biome Expansion (by SuperFluke)
* Dead Man's Abyss (by Pyrofab, RiverLeviathan, UpcraftLP)

=== Spooky Jam 2019 ===
Spooky Jam 2019 was the third Spooky Jam hosted by Darkhax and the MMD Team during October 2019. This was a mod-making event, but not a competition. The mods had to be relevant to the season and/or Halloween. 

==== Mods Created ====

* Bones (by ochotonida)
* Cursed (by Darkhax)
* Thrillager (by Lemons)
* Neverwhere (by Commoble)
* The Hateful Sun (by Willbl3pic)
* SuperHot (by KrokolsCoolne)
* Whisperwoods (by itsmeow, cybercat555)
* Creepy Creepers (by ProxyNeko)
* Tricksters (by Skyjay1)
* Wither Skeleton Totems (by miyo6032)
* Deeper Caverns (by cipherzerox, Endergized, Paradiscal, bl4ckscor3, Mahtaran, Lachney)

== Winter Jam ==

=== Winter Jam 2018 ===
Winter Jam was the first Winter Jam hosted by ProxyNeko and the MMD Team during December 2018. This was a mod-making event, but not a competition. The mods had to be relevant to the season and/or the holidays.

==== Results ====
Five participants are to be randomly chosen to receive a curse point prize.

==== Mods created ====
* Olaf (by UpcraftLP)
* Presents (by ochotonida)
* BouncingSnowballs (by: MayusYT)
* Snow! Real Magic! (by Snownee)
* No Cubes MMD Winterjam (by Cadiboo)
* Snow Variants (by Trikzon)
* Worlds Retold (by Xenoform, Anomalocaris101, coldplayrocks, Th3DemonKnight)
* Legendary Winter (by LegendaryGeekGameing, Cipher_Zero_X, fossos)
* Snowmancy (by bl4ckscor3)

=== Winter Jam 2019 ===
Winter Jam was the second Winter Jam hosted by Proxy Neko and the MMD Team during 2019. This was a mod-making event, but not a competition. The mods had to be relevant to the winter and/or the holidays.

==== Mods Created ====

* Fimbulwinter (by javisel, MotorGorilla1, cipher_zero_x)
* Ice Sculptures (by hnOsmium0001)
* Polarizing Biomes (by bl4ckscor3)
* Snow Under Trees (by bl4ckscor3)
* Snow Variants (by Trikzon)
* Snow! Real Magic! (by Snownee_)
* Snowmancy (by bl4ckscor3)
* Spruce Willis the Xmas Tree (by ProxyNeko, Coda1552, and jriwanek)
* Thicker Snow on Grass (by tfarecnim)
* Winter Ambiance (by Willbl3pic)
* Winter Decorations (by Willbl3pic) 

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== External links ==
* On [[ftb:Main Page|FTB Wiki]]
** [[ftb:ModJam 1|ModJam 1]]
** [[ftb:ModJam 2|ModJam 2]]
** [[ftb:ModJam 3|ModJam 3]]
** [[ftb:ModJam 4|ModJam 4]]
** [[ftb:ModJam 5|ModJam 5]]
** [[ftb:Spooky Jam 2017|Spooky Jam 2017]]
** [[ftb:Spooky Jam 2018|Spooky Jam 2018]]
** [[ftb:Winter Jam 2018|Winter Jam 2018]]
** [[ftb:Winter Jam 2019|Winter Jam 2019]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox community}}
{{Navbox event|Installments}}

[[Category:Mods]]
[[Category:Mojang Studios]]
[[Category:Events]]
[[Category:Community]]
[[Category:History]]

[[de:ModJam]]
[[lzh:莈嶄]]
[[zh:ModJam]]