{{Dungeons hatnote|type=enchantment}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = I
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Crossbow|link=Crossbow}}
| weight = 2
| incompat = [[Piercing]]
}}
'''Multishot''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[crossbow]]s that makes firing one shoot three copies of the loaded projectile in a fixed spread, at the cost of draining more [[durability]].

== Obtaining ==
Multishot can be obtained from [[enchanting tables]], drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]] {{only|bedrock}}, books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
A crossbow with Multishot shoots two additional arrows on each shot, sending them in different directions (10° apart horizontally), but consumes only one arrow. Only the central arrow can be collected after shooting. {{IN|java}}, due to [[Damage#Immunity|damage immunity]], only one arrow from the same shot can damage the same mob; other arrows that hit that mob are deflected.

In [[Java Edition|''Java Edition'']], higher levels of Multishot (only available through [[commands]]) further increase the number of arrows shot by the crossbow, adding two additional arrows per level, each spread by a further 10° horizontally.

Tipped/spectral arrows and firework rockets fired with a Multishot crossbow are duplicated in the same manner.

Crossbows with the Multishot enchantment use one durability point for each projectile shot.

Multishot also functions on a [[bow]] if applied using [[commands]] or an [[anvil]] in [[Creative]] mode.

== Incompatibilities ==
Multishot and [[Piercing]] are mutually exclusive. However, if combined using [[commands]] or obtained using glitches, both enchantments function as normal, with any extra arrows being able to pierce as well.

== Data values ==

=== ID ===

{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=multishot
|displayname=Multishot
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=multishot
|displayname=Multishot
|id=33
|translationkey=enchantment.crossbowMultishot
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=18w43a|Added the Multishot enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w09a|Multishot now works on [[bow]]s if placed onto the weapon using data manipulation or a change to the <code>enchantable/*</code> tags.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21|dev=24w18a|Multishot now shoots additional projectiles at higher levels.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8.0|dev=beta 1.8.0.10|exp=Experimental Gameplay|Added the Multishot enchantment, which is currently behind [[Experimental Gameplay]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.10.0|dev=beta 1.10.0.3|The Multishot enchantment is available outside of Experimental Gameplay.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|ps4}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.90|Added the Multishot enchantment.}}
}}

=== ''Java Edition Combat Tests'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|combat java}}
|{{HistoryLine||3|Arrows no longer trigger the attack [[invulnerability timer]], allowing all three arrows from Multishot to connect against a single entity.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== Trivia ==
* In [[Java Edition 3D Shareware v1.34]] (the 2019 April Fools update), the maximum level of Multishot was 12, and higher levels of Multishot (obtainable through the burning barrels in that version or commands) shot more arrows. This was the only version to do this at the time; in all other versions prior to [[24w18a]], crossbows shot three arrows regardless of the level of Multishot.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|ranged}}

[[de:Mehrfachschuss]]
[[es:Multidisparo]]
[[fr:Tir multiple]]
[[ja:拡散]]
[[lzh:千影矢]]
[[pt:Rajada]]
[[th:กระสุนกระจาย]]
[[zh:多重射击]]