{{about|the trailer|the drop|Nether Update}}
{{Wip}}
{{More images}}
{{Infobox video
|type=Cinematic trailer
|director=[[Johannes Sande]]
|producer=[[Elias Widerdal]]
|prev=[[Buzzy Bees: Official Trailer]]
|next=[[Caves & Cliffs Update: Part I – Official Trailer]]
|length=1:23
|date=June 24, 2020|
|production=[[Svep Studios]]<ref name="svep">https://www.svepstudios.se/work/minecraft-nether</ref>
}}

'''Nether Update''' is the offical trailer of the [[Nether Update]].

== Summary ==
Under a slightly modified tune of {{w|Edvard Grieg}}'s ''{{w|Morning Mood}}'', [[Alex]] and [[Steve]] happen upon a [[ruined portal]] and decide to fix it up. On the other side, they're introduced to the many biomes and creatures of [[the Nether]], such as an [[enderman]] lurking in the [[warped forest]], as Grieg's ''{{w|In the Hall of the Mountain King}}'' started playing. Soon, they end up ambushed by a squad of [[piglin]]s, who shoot them dead with arrows. The two return, now wearing [[iron armor]], and manage to survive long enough to retreat into a [[crimson forest]], as the piglins ambush them from inside the fungi. This time, the heroes came prepared and place down a [[respawn anchor]], only to end up dying and thus losing their armor.

From there, Steve tries to make peace with the piglins by gifting one [[rotten flesh]]. He gets killed. He gifts the same piglin [[gold ingot]] while wearing [[gold armor]]. He gets the piglins' respect. Steve and Alex then proceed to mine [[nether gold ore]], but are spotted by a [[ghast]]. After respawning they notice a [[hoglin]] and hunt it for meat. Following a hefty meal, they forge new [[netherite armor]] and fight countless [[mob]]s on top of a dune in a [[soul sand valley]].

=== Characters ===
{{columns-list|colwidth=20em|
*{{EntityLink|Alex}}
*{{EntityLink|Bee}}
*{{EntityLink|Blaze}}
*{{EntityLink|Enderman}}
*{{EntityLink|Ghast}}
*{{EntityLink|Hoglin}}
*{{EntityLink|Piglin}}
*{{EntityLink|Skeleton}}
*{{EntityLink|Steve}}
*{{EntityLink|Strider}}
*{{EntityLink|Wither Skeleton}}
*{{EntityLink|Zombified Piglin}}}}

== Credits ==
'''Direction'''
*[[Johannes Sande]]

'''Producer'''
*[[Elias Widerdal]]

'''3D Lead'''
*[[Fredrik Ekholm]]

'''Art Direction'''
*[[Johannes Sande]]
*[[Ninni Landin]]
*[[Martin Johansson]]

'''3D Generalist'''
*[[Noam Briner]]

'''FX / Particles'''
*[[Erik Norrhede]]
*[[Elias Widerdal]]

'''Character Animation'''
*[[David Weidmann]]
*[[Christoph Schinko]]
*[[Matthias Knappe]]

'''Compositing'''
*[[Fredrik Ekholm]]
*[[Johannes Sande]]
*[[Jacob Danell]]

'''Storyboard Artist'''
*[[Magnus Jonason]]

'''Mastering'''
*[[Steffen Knoesgaard]]

'''Grade'''
*[[Sander Van Wijk]]


== Quotes ==
{{Quote|Are you ready to get to know the darker side of Minecraft? On June 23 the Nether Update brings the heat to an already fiery dimension on Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, iOS, Android, Windows 10, and more. The update will also be available Java, and then rolls out on Windows, Mac OS, and Linux within 24 hours.|YouTube description}}{{Quote|Are you ready to get to know the darker side of Minecraft? The new Nether update for Minecraft introduces a new and updated version of the dark alternate dimension called “The Nether”. Based on the idea of “Live, Die, Repeat” we follow our heroes down in the Nether where they face new and more challenging enemies than ever before.|Svep Studios description<ref name="svep"/>}}

== Videos ==
{{yt|1DhWXAiNgfQ}}

== Gallery ==
{{empty section}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox cinematics}}

[[Category:Svep Studios]]