{{exclusive|java}}
'''Noise settings''' are for generating the shape of the terrain and noise caves, and what blocks the terrain is generated with, stored as [[JSON]] files within a [[data pack]] in the path {{cd|data/<namespace>/worldgen/noise_settings}}, and are used with the {{cd|minecraft:noise}} generator in a dimension. Vanilla settings include {{cd|minecraft:overworld}} for normal [[Overworld]] generation, {{cd|minecraft:amplified}} for [[Amplified]] Overworld generation, {{cd|minecraft:nether}} for regular [[The Nether|Nether]] generation, {{cd|minecraft:caves}} for Cave (Nether-like generation but with Overworld [[terrain features]]) generation, {{cd|minecraft:end}} for regular [[The End|End]] generation, and {{cd|minecraft:floating_islands}} for Floating Islands (similar to The End outer islands) generation.

== JSON format ==
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound}}: Root object.
** {{/JSON format}}
</div>

== Noise router ==
{{Main|Noise router}}

The '''noise router''' is a collection of [[density function]]s. Density functions compute a value for each block position. They are used for terrain generation, biome layout, aquifers, ore veins, and more. 

== Surface rule ==
{{Main|Surface rule}}

'''Surface rules''' are used to determine the block for each solid position of the terrain. Noise settings contains one root {{nbt|compound|surface_rule}} field that contains all the logic for placing the different surface blocks.

== Defaults ==

These are the default settings for some vanilla presets. For brevity, some fields are summarized or omitted entirely; the vanilla data pack's <code>minecraft/worldgen/noise_settings</code> directory has them in full.

Amplified and large biomes are the same as Overworld generation, but the {{nbt|compound|noise_router}} is adjusted.

{| class="wikitable"
|+
!Property
!Overworld
!Caves
!Floating Islands
!The Nether
!The End
|-
|{{nbt|int|sea_level}}
|63
|32
| -64
| 32
|0
|-
|{{nbt|boolean|disable_mob_generation}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|yes|true}}
|-
|{{nbt|boolean|ore_veins_enabled}}
|{{tc|yes|true}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|-
|{{nbt|boolean|aquifers_enabled}}
|{{tc|yes|true}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|-
| {{nbt|boolean|legacy_random_source}}
|{{tc|no|false}}
|{{tc|yes|true}}
|{{tc|yes|true}}
|{{tc|yes|true}}
|{{tc|yes|true}}
|-
|{{nbt|compound|default_block}}
| colspan=3| {{BlockLink|Stone}}
| {{BlockLink|Netherrack}}
| {{BlockLink|End Stone}}
|-
| {{nbt|compound|default_fluid}}
| colspan=3 | {{BlockLink|Water}}
| {{BlockLink|Lava}}
| {{BlockLink|Air}}
|-
| {{nbt|list|spawn_target}}
| Two spawn targets
| Empty
| Empty
| Empty
| Empty
|-
| {{nbt|int|noise.min_y}}
| -64
| -64
| 0
| 0
| 0
|-
| {{nbt|int|noise.height}}
| 384
| 192
| 256
| 128
| 128
|-
| {{nbt|int|noise.size_horizontal}}
| 1
| 1
| 2
| 1
| 2
|-
| {{nbt|int|noise.size_vertical}}
| 2
| 2
| 1
| 2
| 1
|-
| {{nbt|compound|surface_rule}}
| The usual Overworld rules: places bedrock, deepslate, grass, and all biome-specific blocks.
| Similar to the Overworld, but with a bedrock roof and tweaked to allow generating dirt and grass not on the surface.
| Similar to the Overworld, but with no bedrock floor and tweaked to allow generating dirt and grass not on the surface.
| Places the bedrock floor and roof, and biome-specific blocks.
| Places end stone only.
|}

== History ==
{{empty section}}

== External links ==
* [https://misode.github.io/worldgen/noise-settings/ Noise settings Generator on misode.github.io]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|datapack}}

[[de:Rauscheinstellungen]]
[[fr:Paramètres de bruit]]
[[zh:噪声设置]]