{{Infobox object
| image = Obsidian Twin Blades.png
| material = *{{BlockLink|Obsidian}}
*{{ItemLink|Stick}}
| creator = *[[Icco White]]
| owner = *[[Yamabuki]]
*[[Don Gold]] ''(temporarily)''
| first_appearance = ''[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 1|The Twin-Blade Ninja's Challenge!]]''
| latest_appearance = ''[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 3|Bad-Guy Town Ahead!]]''
| designation = Weapons; [[Sword]]s
}}
The {{JP|'''Obsidian Twin Blades'''|<ruby>黒曜刀<rt>こくよう とう</rt></ruby>|Koku Yōtō|lead=yes}} are a set of two [[obsidian]] [[sword]]s created by [[Icco White]] using the [[Mod Power#Imagination|Imagination]] [[Mod Power]] in ''[[Minecraft: The Manga]]''.

== Appearance ==
The Obsidian Twin Blades resemble regular swords with black blades. They have some type of jewel embedded in their hilts.

== Functionality ==
The Obsidian Twin Blades function as regular swords. Due to being made of obsidian, they are particularly tough, enough to break [[Diamond Sword]]s after a few hits, though they are also much heavier than average swords.<ref name="c5">''[[Minecraft: The Manga]]'' Chapter 5, "[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 1|The Twin-Blade Ninja's Challenge!]]"</ref>

=== Techniques ===
Yamabuki uses the Obsidian Twin Blades to perform various techniques in combat.
*{{JP|'''Serpent of Eight Heads'''|ヤマタノオロチ|Yamata no Orochi}}: A series of eight slashes in quick succession. This technique is named after {{W|Yamata no Orochi}}, an eight-headed serpent from Japanese mythology.
*{{JP|'''Kamaitachi'''|カマイタチ|Kamaitachi}}: Yamabuki holds each sword outward, and begins to spin incredibly fast, creating a tornado of slashes. This technique is named after the {{W|Kamaitachi}}, a "sickle weasel" yōkai.<ref name="c20">''[[Minecraft: The Manga]]'' Chapter 20, "[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 4|Let The Pie Wars Begin!]]"</ref>

=== Crafting recipe ===
{{Imagination Crafting|
|ingredients= [[Obsidian]] + [[Stick]]
| A1= | B1= | C1=          | D1= | E1=
| A2= | B2= | C2= Obsidian | D2= | E2=
| A3= | B3= | C3= Obsidian | D3= | E3=
| A4= | B4= | C4= Stick    | D4= | E4=
| A5= | B5= | C5=          | D5= | E5=
|Output= Obsidian Twin Blade
|Olink= Obsidian Twin Blades
}}

== History ==
Ten years ago, [[Icco White]] passed through the ninjas' hidden village. He crafted the Obsidian Twin Blades while there, leaving them behind when he moved on. The twin blades were eventually inherited by [[Yamabuki]], who took them with him when he was exiled from the village.

After his exile, Yamabuki began to challenge other adventurers to combat, aiming to become the strongest in the world. He used the Obsidian Twin Blades to achieve 999 victories, finally facing his first defeat against [[Nico White]] and [[Gray (character)|Gray]]. Motivated by his loss, Nico decided to discover the end of the world, bringing his twin blades as his primary weapons.<ref name="c5"/> Throughout his journey, he occasionally ran into Nico's party, continuing to wield his twin blades the whole time.

Later on in his journey, Yamabuki passed through [[Metys Village]]. While there, [[Don Gold]] tricked him into handing over the twin blades, claiming them for himself and imprisoning Yamabuki. Don Gold's ownership of the twin blades lasted for an unknown amount of time until Nico's party reached the village, who stole the blades from Don Gold and returned them to Yamabuki.<ref>''[[Minecraft: The Manga]]'' Chapter 12, "[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 3|Bad-Guy Town Ahead!]]"</ref>

== History of appearances ==
*''[[Minecraft: The Manga]]''
**01. ''[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 1|The Twin-Blade Ninja's Challenge!]]''
**06. ''[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 2|Mystery Monster Hunt!]]''
**08. ''[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 2|First Festival, Then Treasure!]]''
**12. ''[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 3|Bad-Guy Town Ahead!]]''
**20. ''[[Minecraft: The Manga Volume 4|Let The Pie Wars Begin!]]''

== References ==
<references/>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox comics|manga}}
[[Category:Weapons]]
[[Category:Fictional mods]]