{{Structure info}}
{{Update|Suspicious gravel and suspicious sand now generate in ocean ruins.}}

== Cold ruins ==
=== Large ruins ===
==== Stone brick ====
The structure below is called “big_ruin1_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 1 Brick|'''Big Ruin 1 Brick'''|p}}
  
The structure below is called “big_ruin2_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 2 Brick|'''Big Ruin 2 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin3_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 3 Brick|'''Big Ruin 3 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin8_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 8 Brick|'''Big Ruin 8 Brick'''|p}}

==== Mossy stone brick ====
The structure below is called “big_ruin1_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 1 Mossy|'''Big Ruin 1 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin2_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 2 Mossy|'''Big Ruin 2 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin3_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 3 Mossy|'''Big Ruin 3 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin8_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 8 Mossy|'''Big Ruin 8 Mossy'''|p}}

==== Cracked stone brick ====
The structure below is called “big_ruin1_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 1 Cracked|'''Big Ruin 1 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin2_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 2 Cracked|'''Big Ruin 2 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin3_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 3 Cracked|'''Big Ruin 3 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin8_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin 8 Cracked|'''Big Ruin 8 Cracked'''|p}}

=== Small ruins ===
==== Stone brick ====
The structure below is called “ruin1_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 1 Brick|'''Ruin 1 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin2_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 2 Brick|'''Ruin 2 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin3_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 3 Brick|'''Ruin 3 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin4_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 4 Brick|'''Ruin 4 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin5_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 5 Brick|'''Ruin 5 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin6_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 6 Brick|'''Ruin 6 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin7_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 7 Brick|'''Ruin 7 Brick'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin8_brick”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 8 Brick|'''Ruin 8 Brick'''|p}}

==== Mossy stone brick ====
The structure below is called “ruin1_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 1 Mossy|'''Ruin 1 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin2_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 2 Mossy|'''Ruin 2 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin3_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 3 Mossy|'''Ruin 3 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin4_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 4 Mossy|'''Ruin 4 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin5_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 5 Mossy|'''Ruin 5 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin6_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 6 Mossy|'''Ruin 6 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin7_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 7 Mossy|'''Ruin 7 Mossy'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin8_mossy”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 8 Mossy|'''Ruin 8 Mossy'''|p}}

==== Cracked stone brick ====
The structure below is called "ruin1_cracked".
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 1 Cracked|'''Ruin 1 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin2_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 2 Cracked|'''Ruin 2 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin3_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 3 Cracked|'''Ruin 3 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin4_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 4 Cracked|'''Ruin 4 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin5_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 5 Cracked|'''Ruin 5 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin6_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 6 Cracked|'''Ruin 6 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin7_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 7 Cracked|'''Ruin 7 Cracked'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin8_cracked”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin 8 Cracked|'''Ruin 8 Cracked'''|p}}

== Warm ruins ==
=== Large ruins ===
The structure below is called “big_ruin_warm?”.

{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin Warm ?|'''Big Ruin Warm ?'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin_warm4”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin Warm 4|'''Big Ruin Warm 4'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin_warm5”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin Warm 5|'''Big Ruin Warm 5'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin_warm6”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin Warm 6|'''Big Ruin Warm 6'''|p}}

The structure below is called “big_ruin_warm7”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Big Ruin Warm 7|'''Big Ruin Warm 7'''|p}}

=== Small ruins ===
The structure below is called “ruin_warm1”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 1|'''Ruin Warm 1'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin_warm2”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 2|'''Ruin Warm 2'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin_warm3”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 3|'''Ruin Warm 3'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin_warm4”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 4|'''Ruin Warm 4'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin_warm5”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 5|'''Ruin Warm 5'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin_warm6”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 6|'''Ruin Warm 6'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin_warm7”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 7|'''Ruin Warm 7'''|p}}

The structure below is called “ruin_warm8”.
{{LoadPage|{{FULLPAGENAME}}/Ruin Warm 8|'''Ruin Warm 8'''|p}}

[[Category:Structure Blueprints]]

[[fr:Ruines sous-marines/Structure]]
[[zh:海底废墟/结构]]