{{More images}}{{Missing information|Map}}{{Infobox video|type=Promotional machinima|production=[[Hat Films]]|date=November 13, 2011|length=3:46|music={{w|Ephixa}}|image=Steve's panel.png}}

The '''official Minecon trailer''' is the official trailer for [[MINECON 2011|''MINECON 2011'']].

== Summary ==
Living in a house built on top a lake, [[Steve]] receives an [[Map|invitation]] from [[Mojang Studios]] to attend Minecon. Accepting it, they travel to an airplane, where they are escorted by [[djh3max]] and [[Trottimus]]. Passing by several YouTubers of the day and a [[cow]], Steve takes a [[Smooth Stone Slab|seat]] and looks out a [[Glass|window]] as the plane takes off. Arriving at {{Wikipedia|Mandalay Bay}}, Steve marches down a [[Wool|red carpet]], while [[Alsmiffy]] and [https://yogscast.fandom.com/wiki/Simon_Lane Honeydew] work on a contraption outside.

Meeting up with [https://yogscast.fandom.com/wiki/Lewis_Brindley Xephos], Steve is brought into the building, while Alsmiffy shows reluctance to finish the machine, apparently designed to infiltrate the convention. Inside, Steve walks down a [[Glowstone|long]] [[Planks|path]], past many figures and players. However, Honeydew ends up being shot inside by an [[explosion]], breaking a [[wool]] wall. Xephos protects Steve from several people using a [[golden sword]], before the two reach the top of a panel, exchanging head nods with [[Markus Persson|Notch]] and [[Jens Bergensten|Jeb]]. Looking over attendance, Steve realizes a [[creeper]] has snuck in, too late to stop it from exploding.

=== Characters ===
{{columns-list|
* {{SkinLink|Alsmiffy}}
* {{EntityLink|Cow}}
* {{EntityLink|Creeper}}
* {{SkinLink|djh3max}}
* {{SkinLink|ez}}
* {{EntityLink|Herobrine}}
* {{SkinLink|link=https://yogscast.fandom.com/wiki/Simon_Lane|Honeydew}}
* {{SkinLink|jeb_}}
* {{SkinLink|Logdotzip}}
* {{SkinLink|Notch}}
* {{EntityLink|Steve}}
* {{SkinLink|Trottimus}}
* [https://yogscast.fandom.com/wiki/Lewis_Brindley Xephos]
|colwidth=20em}}

== Quotes ==
{{Quote|This is the Official Minecon Trailer made by HAT Films. The Yogscast and Ephixa are also involved  as well as over 300 of viewers out there. Watch to see if you're in there and enjoy!|Video description}}

== Videos ==
{{YT|LTJpKYiENro}}{{YouTube|7JUCxxqbQjY}}

== Trivia ==

* Alongside the release of the behind the scenes video was a contest, wherein ten random subscribers of Hat Films were given codes to access ''[[Java Edition|Minecraft]]''.
** The contest was set up to ensure only "true Minecrafters" would get the game and not {{Wikipedia|spambots}} "who have no friends."
* To the right of the Mandalay Bay is a recreation of the {{W|Luxor Las Vegas}}, an {{Wikipedia|ancient Egyptian}} themed hotel located near the resort in real life, albeit not precisely where it is in the video. According to the behind the scenes video, it was made simply out of a desire to build "a massive pyramid."
* Behind the Mandalay Bay area is a "really pathetic" recreation of the {{Wikipedia|Eiffel Tower}}, made out of [[Block of Gold|blocks of gold]].
* Despite the front of the building having doors in the video, the in-map model doesn't lead to the interior set. Instead, merely a wall of [[black wool]].

== Gallery ==
{{Empty section}}

== External links ==
* [https://www.mediafire.com/?y2sx5jl8bqdoj35 Download of the world used in the trailer]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox event|Promotions}}{{Navbox machinima}}{{Navbox worlds|Demonstration}}
[[Category:MINECON]]
[[Category:Hat Films]]