{{About|the joke manufactured structure|the block|Other Portal (block)|the block in [[Java Edition 20w14∞]]|Funky Portal}}
{{Joke feature}}

{{Infobox structure
|image=Other Portal.png
|blocks = 
* {{BlockLink|Glowstone}}
* {{BlockLink|Other Portal|link=Other Portal (block)}}
|canspawn=No
}}
An '''other portal''' is a manufactured structure that teleports the player 500 blocks up in the [[Overworld]].

== Creation ==
{| class="wikitable" style="float:right; margin:0"
|+ Build schematics
| align="center" | {{BlockGrid|spacing=1|o=Glowstone|p=Other Portal?Other Portal (block)
  |oooo
  |oppo
  |oppo
  |oppo
  |oooo
  }}
| align="center" | {{BlockGrid|spacing=1|o=Glowstone|p=Other Portal?Other Portal (block)
  | oo 
  |oppo
  |oppo
  |oppo
  | oo 
  }}
|-
! Full version !! Minimal version
|}
An other portal is built as a vertical, rectangular frame of [[glowstone]] (4×5 minimum, 23×23 maximum), similar to a [[Nether portal]]. The four corners of the frame are not required. Adjacent portals can share glowstone blocks. An other portal cannot be built horizontally like an [[End portal]].

Once a frame is constructed, it is activated by [[water]] placed inside the frame. This creates portal blocks inside the frame, resembling a vortex. The water can be placed in any manner, including use of [[water bucket]], dispensed by dispenser or natural spread of water. Other portals can be activated only in the Overworld; they cannot be activated in [[the End]] and [[custom dimension]]s.

The water must be the last placed block in the structure—a water in an incomplete frame does not result in the portal activating upon the placement of the last glowstone block.

== Behavior ==
{{main|Other Portal (block)}}

When a player in the [[Overworld]] or [[the Nether]] stands in an other portal block for 4 seconds, the player is teleported 500 blocks in the air and <code>Error 404 Terrain Not Found</code> appears in the chat. The player can step out of a portal before it completes its animation to abort the teleport. However, in [[Creative]], the wait time is one game tick ({{frac|1|20}} second) for the player to transfer between "dimensions."

Most entities can travel through portals, including mobs (except the [[wither]] and [[ender dragon]]), [[item (entity)|thrown items]], and transportation ''without passengers'' (neither mobs nor player)<ref>{{bug|MC-67}}</ref>, including [[boat]]s, [[minecart]]s and [[horse]]s.<!--Storage minecarts and powered minecarts can pass through. Thus, inter-dimensional railways are limited to cargo. --> Unlike players, other entities travel through portals instantly, and once they reach the other side, there is a cool-down time for 300 game ticks (15 seconds), in which they cannot go through any other portals. Therefore, an entity can only travel though other portals again, once it is not touching any other portal for 15 seconds.

== Sounds ==
=== Generic ===
{{Sound table/Block/Glass/JE}}
=== Unique ===

{{SoundTable
| type = java
| {{SoundLine
| sound =Nether portal ambient.ogg
|subtitle=Portal whooshes
|source=block
|description=Randomly
|id=block.portal.ambient
|translationkey=subtitles.block.portal.ambient
|volume=0.5
|pitch=0.8-1.2
|distance=10}}
| {{SoundLine
|sound=Nether portal trigger.ogg
|subtitle=Portal noise intensifies
|source=ambient
|description=When a player attempts to travel through an other portal
|id=block.portal.trigger
|translationkey=subtitles.block.portal.trigger
|volume=0.25
|pitch=0.8-1.2
| distance = 16
}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Trivia ==
* The other portal is identical in its composition (glowstone and water) to the portal from [https://aether.wiki.gg/wiki/The_Aether The Aether] mod, where it would transport the players to a [[w:Paradise|Heaven]]-like dimension, serving as a counterpart to the [[Nether]]'s hellish environment accessed through an obsidian and fire portal. In its heyday, the mod was one of the most popular and iconic ''Minecraft'' [[mod]]s, leading some players to believe it was actually in vanilla ''Minecraft''.<ref>{{Citation|url=https://www.sportskeeda.com/minecraft/minecraft-redditor-draws-aether-portal-betrayal|title=Minecraft Redditor draws the Aether portal betrayal|author=Akshat Kabra|website=Sportskeeda|date=2022-06-03}}</ref> It is not certain whether the other portal is meant to be a deliberate nod to The Aether.<section begin="sky-dimension-trivia"/><!-- Used in [[Mod#Trivia]] -->
** A [[sky dimension]] similar to the Aether had been planned at some point in ''Minecraft'' development, but was ultimately abandoned in favor of [[The End]] dimension.<ref>{{tweet|notch|71249283520802817|And because PC Gamer made such a big deal of the sky dimension, I guess I'll have to finish it. Consider it confirmed.|May 19, 2011}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|jeb_|124201530856452096|It has been rebranded to be The End realm|October 12, 2011}}</ref><ref>{{tweet|notch|134609813299671040|Probably, yes. :D I love the idea. The Ether mod does it great, try it.|November 10, 2011}}</ref> It was commonly referred to as "Skylands" dimension by the developers and community.<ref>{{ytl|KavmNrLtdso|t=2m57s|Notch Answers Minecraft 1.8 Questions - Community Questions for Markus (Notch) Persson|OmniTechNews|September 1, 2011}}</ref><ref name="DinnerboneUnplannedJuly2012">{{tweet|dinnerbone|220109988100710400|We have no plans to revisit the skylands|July 3, 2012}}</ref>
** While the developer of the Aether mod, [[Brandon Pearce]] (also known as '''kingbdogz'''), has actually been hired by [[Mojang Studios]], there are currently no plans to add any new dimension to ''Minecraft'', sky dimension or otherwise.<ref name="JebUnplannedJuly2012">{{tweet|jeb_|219758430276173824|No we don't plan to return the Sky Dimension|July 2, 2012}}</ref><section end="sky-dimension-trivia"/>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox environment|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|23w13a or b}}

[[Category:Player-built structures]]
[[Category:Joke features]]
[[Category:Portals]]

[[ja:Other Portal]]
[[pt:Edição Java 23w13a or b/Other Portal]]
[[ru:Другой портал]]
[[zh:异界传送门]]