{{Infobox company
| title=
| image= OtherOceanLogo.png
| imagesize= 
| type= Private
| founders= Andrew Ayre
| founded= {{start date and age|February 6, 2006}}
| headquarters= [[Wikipedia:St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador|St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador]], [[Wikipedia:Canada|Canada]]
| keypeople= 
| products= [[New Nintendo 3DS Edition|Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition]], [[wikipedia:Dark Void Zero|Dark Void Zero]], and others
| parent= 
| website= https://otherocean.com
| notes= 
}}

'''Other Ocean Interactive''' is a Canadian independent game development studio based in [[Wikipedia:St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador|St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador]], [[Wikipedia:Canada|Canada]].

The studio is known for developing Minecraft for the [[New Nintendo 3DS Edition|New Nintendo 3DS]] among other games.<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20220122150110/http://otherocean.com/games/</ref>

== Games ==
Other Ocean Interactive has developed the following games:

* ''Super Monkey Ball'' (iOS, 2008)
* ''[[wikipedia:Hexic|Hexic]]'' (PC/360/WinMobile, 2009)
* ''Puffins: Island Adventure'' (DS, 2009)
* ''[[wikipedia:Dark Void Zero|Dark Void Zero]]'' (PC/iOS/DSi, 2010)
* ''[[wikipedia:Iron Brigade (video game)|Iron Brigade]]'' (PC/360, 2011)
* ''[[wikipedia:Mortal Kombat Arcade Kollection|Mortal Kombat Arcade Kollection]]'' (PC/360/PS3, 2011)
* ''[[wikipedia:Stacking (video game)|Stacking]]'' (PC/OSX/Linux/360/PS3, 2011-2013)
* ''[[wikipedia:The Simpsons: Tapped Out|The Simpsons: Tapped Out]]'' (iOS/Android, 2012-2013)
* ''[[wikipedia:Costume Quest 2|Costume Quest 2]]'' (PC/OSX/Linux/PS3/PS4/Xbox/WiiU, 2014)
* ''[[wikipedia:Super Time Force|Super Time Force Ultra]]'' (PC/OSX/Linux/PS4/PSVita/Xbox, 2014-2016)
* ''#IDARB'' (PC/ONE, 2015)
* ''Yu-Gi-Oh! Legacy of the Duelist'' (PC/ONE/PS4, 2015-2016)
* ''Reload: Z-Team'' (iOS/Android, 2017)
* ''[[wikipedia:Thimbleweed Park|Thimbleweed Park]]'' (PC/macOS/Linux/ONE/PS4/NSwitch/iOS/Android, 2017)
* ''Giant Cop: Justice Above All'' (VR, 2017)
* ''[[New Nintendo 3DS Edition|Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition]]'' (New3DS, 2017)
* ''[[wikipedia:Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality|Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality]]'' (VR, 2017-2018)
* ''Project Winter'' (PC, 2019)
* ''[[wikipedia:MediEvil (2019 video game)|MediEvil]]'' (PS4, 2019)
* ''Diebrary'' (PC, 2023)
* ''Underlab'' (PC, unknown)

== Studios ==

* Other Ocean Emeryville
* Other Ocean NL
* Brackish
* Digital Eclipse (2015 – 2023)

== Awards ==
''Develop'' Magazine's "Top 100 Game Studios in the World"
[http://business.financialpost.com/entrepreneur/special-citation-awards-recognizing-the-special-efforts Ernst and Young's 2011 special citation for Product Innovation] in Canada
The CEO was also the recipient of Ernst and Young's Media Entertainment Entrepreneur of the year for Atlantic Canada.

== History ==
Other Ocean Interactive was founded by Andrew Ayre in the March of 2006. Since then, the company has created many video games for many different platforms, and won several awards. Other Ocean Interactive, along with [[Mojang Studios]] and {{w|Xbox Game Studios}}, officially released the ''Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition'', on November 10, 2017.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== External links ==
* [http://www.otherocean.com/ Official website]
* [https://twitter.com/Other_Ocean Twitter profile]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox companies}}

[[de:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[es:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[fr:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[ja:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[nl:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[pt:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[ru:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[uk:Other Ocean Interactive]]
[[zh:Other Ocean Interactive]]