{{exclusive|java}}
When [[Particles (Java Edition)|particles]] are spawned using the {{cmd|particle}} command, by [[Biome definition|biomes]] or [[Enchantment definition|enchantments]], they can be configured using [[NBT]] or [[JSON]] data.

== Usage ==
When referenced from a [[custom biome|biome]] or [[custom enchantment|enchantment]] definition, a particle is defined using:
<div class=treeview>
* {{nbt|compound}}: The particle object<section begin="json format" />
** {{nbt|string|type}}: The id of the particle type, see [[Particles (Java Edition)]] for valid options
** Additional fields based on the type, {{#ifeq:{{PAGENAME}}|Particle format|[[#Configurations of particle types|see below]]|see {{slink|Particle format|Configurations of particle types}}}}<section end="json format" />
</div>

== Configurations of particle types ==
Some particle types have configurations that need to be specified. These types and the configuration fields are:

<div class=treeview>
* '''block''', '''block_crumble''', '''block_marker''', '''dust_pillar''', and '''falling_dust'''
** {{nbt|compound|block_state}}: Contains the block state used for the particle.
*** {{nbt inherit/block_state}}
** '''Alternative syntax:'''
** {{nbt|string|block_state}}: The [[resource location]] of the block to use.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''dragon_breath'''
** {{nbt|float|power}}: Optional, defaults to {{cd|1.0}} &mdash; Scaling of the velocity after randomness.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''dust'''
** {{nbt|int}}{{nbt|list|color}}: Three floats representing the red, green, and blue components of the dust color. Each value must be between 0 and 1. Can alternatively be an rgb packed integer.
** {{nbt|float|scale}}: Controls the size scale multiplier and lifetime multiplier of the particle. The particle's lifetime is a random integer from 8 to 40 game ticks, then multiplied by this scale value, with a minimum of 0.01 and a maximum of 4.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''dust_color_transition'''
** {{nbt|list|from_color}}: Three floats representing the red, green, and blue components of the start color. Each should be from 0 to 1. If any color value is less than 0 or higher than 1, the particle color has undefined behavior.
** {{nbt|list|to_color}}: Three floats representing the red, green, and blue components of the end color. Each should be from 0 to 1. If any color value is less than 0 or higher than 1, the particle color has undefined behavior.
** {{nbt|float|scale}}: Controls the size scale multiplier and lifetime multiplier of the particle. The particle's lifetime is a random integer from 8 to 40 game ticks, then multiplied by this scale value, with a minimum of 0.01 and a maximum of 4.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''effect''', '''instant_effect'''
** {{nbt|float|power}}: Optional, defaults to {{cd|1.0}} &mdash; Scaling of the velocity after randomness.
** {{nbt|list}}{{nbt|int|color}}: Optional, defaults to white &mdash; {{nbt color}}
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''entity_effect'''
** {{nbt|list}}{{nbt|int|color}}: {{nbt color|alpha=1}}
</div>

<!-- when 1.21.9 is released, merge with entity_effect above -->
<div class=treeview>
* '''flash'''
** {{nbt|list}}{{nbt|int|color}}: {{nbt color|alpha=1}}
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''item'''
** {{nbt|compound|item}}: Contains the item data used for the particle.
*** {{nbt inherit/itemnocount}}
** '''Alternative syntax:'''
** {{nbt|string|item}}: The [[resource location]] of the item to use.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''sculk_charge'''
** {{nbt|float|roll}}: The angle the particle displays at in {{w|Radian|radians}}.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
*'''shriek'''
** {{nbt|int|delay}}: The delay in ticks.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
* '''trail'''
** {{nbt|list|target}}: The coordinates the trail particles will go to.
** {{nbt|int|color}}: The particle color, as an RGB integer.
** {{nbt|int|duration}}: The number of ticks the particle will take to travel to the target.
</div>

<div class=treeview>
*'''vibration'''
** {{nbt|compound|destination}}: The destination.
*** {{nbt|string|type}}: Must be <code>block</code>.
*** {{nbt|list|pos}}: The block position.
**** {{nbt|int}}: X
**** {{nbt|int}}: Y
**** {{nbt|int}}: Z
** {{nbt|int|arrival_in_ticks}}: The duration of the move.
</div>

All other types don't have any configuration.

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w14a|Added particle types {{cd|dust_pillar|infested|item_cobweb|ominous_spawning|raid_omen|small_gust|trial_omen|trial_spawner_detection_ominous|d=and}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=pre1|Particle options in SNBT format are now used in the {{cmd|particle}} command.
|Changes to <code>item</code> particle: renamed <code>value</code> field to <code>item</code>, now also allows a string item ID as shorthand.
|Changes to <code>block</code> particle: renamed <code>value</code> field to <code>block_state</code>, now also allows a string block ID as shorthand.
|Changes to <code>entity_effect</code> particle: renamed <code>value</code> field to <code>color</code>, now also allows a list of 4 floats.
|Changes to <code>dust_color_transition</code> particle: renamed <code>fromColor</code> to <code>from_color</code> and <code>toColor</code> to <code>to_color</code>.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.4|Added particle types {{cd|block_crumble}} and {{cd|trail}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.5|dev=25w04a|The particle type {{cd|tinted_leaves}} now has a parameter: {{cd|color}}}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.21.9|dev=25w36a|{{cd|dragon_breath}} now optionally takes a {{cd|power}} parameter, which is multiplied onto its initial velocity, after all randomness.
|{{cd|instant_effect}} and {{cd|effect}} now optionally take {{cd|power}} and {{cd|color}} parameters.
|{{cd|flash}} now requires a {{cd|color}} parameter.}}
}}

== See also ==
* [[Biome definition]]
* [[Enchantment definition]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|general}}
{{Navbox particles}}

[[de:Partikeldaten]]
[[fr:Format de particule]]
[[pt:Formato de partícula]]
[[uk:Формат частинок]]
[[zh:粒子数据格式]]