{{Joke feature}}{{For|the corrupted version|Corrupted Peelgrass Block}}{{Infobox block
| image = Peelgrass Block.png
| renewable = Yes
| tool = Shovel
| stackable = Yes (64)
| light = No
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = No
| transparent = No
}}
A '''peelgrass block''' is a common [[grass]] type block found throughout the Potato dimension in [[24w14potato]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
A peelgrass block can be broken using anything, but a [[shovel]] is the fastest. Peelgrass blocks drop [[terre de pomme]] when mined unless [[Silk Touch]] is used.
{{Breaking row|horizontal=1|Peelgrass Block|shovel|hidecopper=1}}

=== Natural generation ===
Peelgrass blocks naturally generate throughout the surface of the Potato dimension as the ground of [[arboretum]] and [[fields]] biomes.

=== Post-generation ===
Peelgrass can spread to nearby [[terre de pomme]] and [[dirt]] blocks, just like grass spreads to dirt. Additionally, {{control|using}} lime [[potato peels]] on terre de pomme turns it to peelgrass.

== Usage ==
=== Farming ===
{{Control|Using}} a [[hoe]] on a peelgrass block turns it into [[poison farmland]]. Potatoes can grow on peelgrass blocks without the need of tilling them.

=== Paths ===
{{Control|Using}} a [[shovel]] on a peelgrass block turns it into a [[poison path]].

=== Peeling ===
{{Control|Using}} a [[potato peeler]] on a peelgrass block turns it into terre de pomme, and drops lime [[potato peels]].

=== Sheep ===
When a [[sheep]] eats a peelgrass block, the block turns into terre de pomme, and a sheared sheep regrows its wool. Baby sheep graze peelgrass much more often than adults and mature 1 minute faster when grazing.

== Sounds ==
{{Sound table/Block/Peelgrass}}

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Natural blocks]]

[[ja:Peelgrass Block]]
[[zh:薯皮草方块]]