{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
|group=South
|1-1=Pickaxe Block (S).png
|group2=West
|2-1=Pickaxe Block (W).png
|group3=North
|3-1=Pickaxe Block (N).png
|group4=East
|4-1=Pickaxe Block (E).png
|group5=Up
|5-1=Pickaxe Block (U).png
|group6=Down
|6-1=Pickaxe Block (D).png
|transparent=No
|light=No
|tool=Wooden Pickaxe
|renewable=Yes
|stackable=Yes (64)
|flammable=No
|lavasusceptible=No
}}
The '''pickaxe block''' is a joke [[block]] existing only in [[23w13a_or_b]], unlocked by a vote, that can instantly destroy any other block (including blocks indestructible in Survival) when given a [[redstone]] signal.

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
A pickaxe block can be mined with a [[pickaxe]], in which case it drops itself. If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
{{Breaking row|Pickaxe Block|Pickaxe|Wooden|horizontal=1|hidecopper=1}}

=== Crafting ===
{{Crafting
|ingredients=[[Cobblestone]] +<br>Any [[Pickaxe]] +<br> [[Redstone Dust]]
|A1= Cobblestone
|B1= Wooden Pickaxe; Stone Pickaxe; Iron Pickaxe; Golden Pickaxe; Diamond Pickaxe; Netherite Pickaxe
|C1= Cobblestone
|A2= Cobblestone
|C2= Cobblestone
|A3= Cobblestone
|B3= Redstone Dust
|C3= Cobblestone
|Output= Pickaxe Block
|type= Redstone
|ignoreusage=1
}}

== Usage ==
As part of the April Fools' update of 2023, the pickaxe block can be "used" only when the vote for <code>minecraft:pickaxe_block</code> was approved earlier. If this is not the case, the block cannot get:
* placed (nothing happens).
* dropped (the block gets removed from the inventory but no [[item]] appears).
* activated (the block loses its functionality and doesn't react to redstone signals).
* crafted (the output of the crafting table stays empty).

==== Activation ====
A pickaxe block can be activated by:
* an adjacent active '''[[power component]]''' (''Exceptions:'' a redstone torch does not turn ON a pickaxe block it is attached to)
* an adjacent powered opaque '''block''' (strongly-powered or weakly-powered)
* a powered '''[[redstone repeater]]''' or '''[[redstone comparator]]''' facing the pickaxe block
* powered '''[[redstone dust]]''' configured to point at the pickaxe block, or on top of it, or a directionless "dot" next to it; a pickaxe block is ''not'' activated by adjacent powered redstone dust that is configured to point in another direction.
A pickaxe block is ''not'' activated by adjacent powered redstone dust that is configured to point in another direction.

==== Basic utility ====
A pickaxe block can be placed so that its mining side faces in any direction, including up or down. When placed, the mining side faces toward the player. The texture of this side is identical to the output of an [[observer]]. 

When activated, a pickaxe block instantly breaks any block in front of it. This includes everything that is destroyable in Creative mode with a left click: a pickaxe block can break [[bedrock]], [[barrier]]s, [[command block]]s, [[end portal block]]s and other blocks indestructible in Survival, but can't break water or lava. Pickaxe block can even break [[light block]]s, despite the fact that those blocks can be targeted by players only if they are holding such block in their hand.

When broken, most blocks react as if they were destroyed by an unenchanted [[Diamond Pickaxe|diamond]] or [[netherite pickaxe]], no matter which pickaxe was used in the crafting recipe: 
* [[Grass block]] drops dirt, [[stone]] drops cobblestone
* [[Coal ore]] drops one coal and experience, [[lapis lazuli ore]] drops 4-9 lapis lazuli and experience
* [[Monster spawner]] drops only experience
* [[Infested block]]s drop nothing and spawn a silverfish
* [[Gilded blackstone]] drops itself 90% of the time, and golden nuggets 10% of the time

Exceptions include:
* All blocks indestructible in Survival drop nothing
* [[Snow block]] drops 4 snowballs (when player mines it with a pickaxe, block drops nothing - a shovel is required to get snowballs)
** However, a [[snow layer]] still drops nothing when destroyed by a pickaxe block
* [[Amethyst cluster]] drops 2 amethyst shards (when player mines it with a pickaxe, block drops 4 shards)
* [[Cobweb]] drops a string (when player mines it with a pickaxe, block drops nothing - a sword or shears are required to get string)
* [[Ice]] doesn't melt into water, it just disappears
* [[Bee nest]] and [[beehive]] also disappear and no bees are spawned

The pickaxe block can also destroy (and drop) the [[dragon egg]] without it teleporting away.

== Sounds ==
{{Sound table/Block/Stone/JE}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|showforms=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Pickaxe Block
|spritetype=block
|nameid=pickaxe_block
|foot=1}}

=== Block states ===
{{see also|Block states}}
{{empty section}}
{{/BS}}

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== See also ==
*[[Place block]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox redstone|components}}
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|23w13a or b}}

[[Category:Mechanisms]]
[[Category:Manufactured blocks]]
[[Category:Utility blocks]]
[[Category:Joke blocks]]

[[ja:Pickaxe Block]]
[[pt:Bloco de picareta]]
[[zh:镐方块]]