{{Dungeons hatnote|type=enchantment}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = IV
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Crossbow|link=Crossbow}}
| weight = 10
| incompat = [[Multishot]]
}}
'''Piercing''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[crossbow]]s that allows fired [[arrows]] to damage and fly through multiple [[entities]], including [[shields]], without being consumed.

== Obtaining ==
Piercing can be obtained from [[enchanting tables]], drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
Arrows shot from a Piercing [[crossbow]] can pass through the number of entities equal to the enchantment level (for a total of {{math|level+1}} entities damaged). The shot arrows can still be retrieved after piercing a [[mob]], allowing for infinite use of all arrow types, including spectral arrows and [[tipped arrows]]. Arrows do not change direction upon piercing a mob, meaning they hit only mobs in the line of flight.

Piercing ignores [[shield]]s even when they are blocking. 

Piercing does not ignore:
*The shell of a closed [[shulker]]
*The [[wither]]'s 'wither armor' when it reaches half-health
*A [[breeze]]'s wind armor
In all these cases, the arrow bounces off like normal.

Piercing has no effect on [[firework rocket]]s fired from a crossbow.

If commands are used to increase the enchantment level beyond 127, the piercing effect stops working and hits only one mob instead.

Piercing also affects arrows shot from a [[bow]] if applied using [[commands]] or an [[anvil]] in [[Creative]] mode.

Arrows shot from a Piercing crossbow cannot hit the same mob twice, and will pass through previously hit mobs.

== Incompatibilities ==
Piercing and [[Multishot]] are mutually exclusive. However, if combined using [[commands]], both enchantments function as normal, with the two arrows added by the Multishot enchantment getting the effect as well.

== Advancements ==
{{load advancements|Enchanter;Two Birds, One Arrow;Arbalistic}}

== Data values ==

=== ID ===

{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=piercing
|displayname=Piercing
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=piercing
|displayname=Piercing
|id=34
|translationkey=enchantment.crossbowPiercing
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== Development ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine||September 29, 2018|link={{ytl|HoMDyRqMNMA}}|Announced the Piercing enchantment as the "TOP SECRET ENCHANTMENT" in a blog post about [[MINECON Earth 2018]].}}
}}

=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=18w43a|Added Piercing enchantment.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.20.5|dev=24w09a|Piercing now works on [[bow]]s if placed onto the weapon using data manipulation or a change to the <code>enchantable/*</code> tags.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8.0|dev=beta 1.8.0.10|exp=Experimental Gameplay|Added the Piercing enchantment, which is currently behind [[Experimental Gameplay]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.10.0|dev=beta 1.10.0.3|The Piercing enchantment is available outside of Experimental Gameplay.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|ps4}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.90|Added the Piercing enchantment.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|ranged}}

[[de:Durchschuss]]
[[es:Perforación]]
[[fr:Perforation]]
[[ja:貫通]]
[[pt:Perfuração]]
[[th:แหลมทะลุ]]
[[zh:穿透]]