{{Disambiguation}}

'''Pig''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
* {{EntityLink|Pig}}, a passive mob that can be found within the [[Overworld]].
* {{EntityLink|Piglin}}, a neutral mob that can be found within the [[Nether]].
* {{EntityLink|Piglin Brute}}, a hostile variant of piglin which spawns in [[bastion remnant]]s.
* {{EntityLink|Hoglin}}, a warthog-like hostile mob found within the [[crimson forest]].
* {{EntityLink|Zombified Piglin}}, an [[undead]] piglin variant that can be found within the [[Nether wastes]], and also spawns from [[Nether portal]]s.

=== Achievements ===
* [[War Pigs]], an achievement obtained when the player opens a [[chest]] nearby a piglin.
* [[When Pigs Fly]], an achievement obtained when the player rides a [[saddle]]d pig off of a cliff.

=== Downladable content ===
==== Character Creator ====
* {{PersonaLink|Winged Pig Boots}}

==''Minecraft: Story Mode''==
=== Characters ===
*{{SMCharacterLink|Esteban}}
*{{SMCharacterLink|Smushy Cutecheeks}}
*{{SMCharacterLink|Lord von Thunderpork VI}}
*{{SMCharacterLink|Reuben}}

=== Species ===
*{{SMEntityLink|Pig}}
*{{SMEntityLink|Zombie Pigman}}

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==
* {{DuEntityLink|Baby Pig}}, a cosmetic [[MCD:Pet|pet]] mob.
* {{DuEntityLink|Pig}}, a non-attackable pig variant found within various missions.
* {{DuEntityLink|Piggy Bank}}, a wide-eyed pig variant with a chest on its back.
* {{DuEntityLink|Spotted Baby Pig}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Baby Piebald Pig}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Baby Sooty Pig}}
=== Flames of the Nether ===
* {{DuEntityLink|Fungus Thrower}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Hoglin}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Piglin Hunter}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Piglin Merchant}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Piglin}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Unstoppable Tusk}} ([[MCD:Ancient|Ancient]] [[MCD:Hoglin|hoglin]])
* {{DuEntityLink|Zombified Fungus Thrower}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Zombified Piglin Hunter}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Zombified Piglin}}
* {{DuEntityLink|Zombified Baby Pig}}

== ''Minecraft Earth'' ==
* {{EntityLink|Mottled Pig|link=MCE:Mottled Pig}}, a mottled variant
* {{EntityLink|Muddy Pig|link=MCE:Muddy Pig}}, a muddy variant
** {{EntityLink|Dried Muddy Pig|link=MCE:Dried Muddy Pig}}, a dried muddy variant
* {{EntityLink|Pale Pig|link=MCE:Pale Pig}}, a pale variant
* {{EntityLink|Piebald Pig|link=MCE:Piebald Pig}}, a piebald variant
* {{EntityLink|Pig|link=MCE:Pig}}, a variant from original Minecraft
* {{EntityLink|Pink Footed Pig|link=MCE:Pink Footed Pig}}, a pink-footed variant
* {{EntityLink|Sooty Pig|link=MCE:Sooty Pig}}, a sooty variant
* {{EntityLink|Spotted Pig|link=MCE:Spotted Pig}}, a spotted variant
* {{EntityLink|Teacup Pig|link=MCE:Teacup Pig}}, an unused variant

== ''Minecraft Legends'' ==
*{{LeEntityLink|Pig}}
=== Piglins ===
{{Main|Minecraft Legends:Piglin|title1=Piglin}}

===== Horde of the Bastion =====
{{Main|Minecraft Legends:Horde of the Bastion|title1=Horde of the Bastion}}
A horde of piglins that likes fortifying their outposts with many walls, thus having the most fortified outposts compared to the other two hordes.

*{{LeEntityLink|Portal Guard}},
*{{LeEntityLink|Brute}}

===== Horde of the Spore =====
{{Main|Minecraft Legends:Horde of the Spore|title1=Horde of the Spore}}
A horde of piglins that is less fortified than the Horde of the Bastion at their outposts as they don't use walls but they like building their outposts on the high ground.

*{{LeEntityLink|Lava Launcher}},
*{{LegendsEntityLink|Sporeback}}

===== Horde of the Hunt =====
{{Main|Minecraft Legends:Horde of the Hunt|title1=Horde of the Hunt}}
A horde of piglins that doesn't use any fortification in their outposts at all, but their outposts are larger than the others nonetheless. This horde has and uses a lot of bones for their outposts.

*{{LeEntityLink|Pigmadillo}},
*{{LegendsEntityLink|Warboar}}

===== Others =====
*[[MCL:Runt|Runts]], small piglins that make up the bulk of the piglins' forces in all their hordes.
**{{LeEntityLink|Mace Runt}}, runts that wields maces.
**{{LeEntityLink|Blaze Runt}}, runts that wields blaze rods.
**{{LeEntityLink|Spore Medic}}, runts that spreads netherspores which heal wounded piglins.
**{{LeEntityLink|Piglin Builder}}, runts that build [[Legends:Piglin Structure|piglin structures]] and throw grenades.
*{{LegendsEntityLink|Seeker|Seekers}}, a piglin within the Horde of the Hunt and Horde of the Spore that carries an explosive fungus which it uses to damage nearby enemies by charging at them and exploding, damaging itself in the process.
*{{LegendsEntityLink|Clanger|Clangers}}, piglins within all hordes that spawn in higher level outposts and portals, carrying 2 cymbals, which they slam together to stun enemy units.

== ''A Minecraft Movie'' ==
* {{MovieLink|Hoglin}}
* {{MovieLink|Pig}}
* {{MovieLink|Piglin}}

== See also ==
*[[Piglin (disambiguation)]]

[[de:Schwein (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[es:Cerdo (desambiguación)]]
[[fr:Cochon (homonymie)]]
[[it:Maiale (disambigua)]]
[[ja:ブタ (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[ko:돼지 (동음이의)]]
[[pt:Porco (desambiguação)]]
[[ru:Свинья (значения)]]
[[th:หมู (แก้กำกวม)]]
[[uk:Свиня (значення)]]
[[zh:猪（消歧义）]]