{{Infobox version
| title = 1.88
| image = Bedrock 1.9.0 banner.jpg
| edition = PlayStation 4 Edition
| date = February 26, 2019
| prev = 1.85
| next = 1.89
}}
'''1.88''' was an update to ''[[PlayStation 4 Edition]]'' released on February 26, 2019, which added more features from the [[Village & Pillage]] update.<ref>{{tweet|4JStudios|1100319558894792706|A new update for Minecraft: PlayStation 4 Edition is rolling out now. New flowers, walls, stairs, slabs, signs and more! Full changes are here|February 26, 2019}}</ref> This update is equivalent to [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]], only missing the [[Experiments|Experimental Gameplay]] features, such as [[pillager]]s.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Lily of the Valley
|Cornflower
|Spruce Sign
|Birch Sign
|Jungle Sign
|Acacia Sign
|Dark Oak Sign
|Smooth Stone
|Smooth Sandstone
|Smooth Red Sandstone
|Smooth Quartz Block
|Shulker Box
|Stone Slab
|Andesite Slab
|Polished Andesite Slab
|Diorite Slab
|Polished Diorite Slab
|Granite Slab
|Polished Granite Slab
|Mossy Stone Brick Slab
|Mossy Cobblestone Slab
|Smooth Sandstone Slab
|Smooth Red Sandstone Slab
|Smooth Quartz Slab
|Red Nether Brick Slab
|End Stone Brick Slab
|Cut Sandstone Slab
|Cut Red Sandstone Slab
|Stone Stairs
|Andesite Stairs
|Polished Andesite Stairs
|Diorite Stairs
|Polished Diorite Stairs
|Granite Stairs
|Polished Granite Stairs
|Mossy Stone Brick Stairs
|Mossy Cobblestone Stairs
|Smooth Sandstone Stairs
|Smooth Red Sandstone Stairs
|Smooth Quartz Stairs
|Red Nether Brick Stairs
|End Stone Brick Stairs
|Brick Wall
|Andesite Wall
|Diorite Wall
|Granite Wall
|Prismarine Wall
|Stone Brick Wall
|Mossy Stone Brick Wall
|Sandstone Wall
|Red Sandstone Wall
|Nether Brick Wall
|Red Nether Brick Wall
|End Stone Brick Wall
}}

=== Blocks ===
; [[Flower]]s
* Added new flowers: [[Lily of the Valley]] and [[Cornflower]].

; [[Sign]]s
* Added new [[sign]] variants: [[Sign#Spruce|spruce]], [[Sign#Birch|birch]], [[Sign#Jungle|jungle]], [[Sign#Acacia|acacia]], and [[Sign#Dark Oak|dark oak]].

; Smooth blocks
* Added [[smooth stone]], [[smooth sandstone]], [[smooth red sandstone]], and [[smooth quartz block]].

; [[Shulker Box]]es
* Added an undyed variant of the shulker box. All previous purple shulker boxes are now undyed shulker boxes.
* The purple shulker box texture has been changed to the new color palette.

; [[Slab]]s, [[stairs]], and [[wall]]s
* Added new slab, stairs, and wall variants:
** [[Stone slab]]s and [[stone stairs]].
** [[Andesite slab]]s, [[andesite stairs]], and [[andesite wall]]s.
** [[Polished andesite slab]]s and [[polished andesite stairs]].
** [[Diorite slab]]s, [[diorite stairs]], and [[diorite wall]]s.
** [[Polished diorite slab]]s and [[polished diorite stairs]].
** [[Granite slab]]s, [[granite stairs]], and [[granite wall]]s.
** [[Polished granite slab]]s and [[polished granite stairs]].
** [[Mossy stone brick slab]]s, [[mossy stone brick stairs]], and [[mossy stone brick wall]]s.
** [[Mossy cobblestone slab]]s and [[mossy cobblestone stairs]].
** [[Sandstone wall]]s and [[red sandstone wall]]s.
** [[Smooth sandstone slab]]s and [[smooth sandstone stairs]].
** [[Smooth red sandstone slab]]s and [[smooth red sandstone stairs]].
** [[Cut sandstone slab]]s and [[cut red sandstone slab]]s.
** [[Smooth quartz slab]]s and [[smooth quartz stairs]].
** [[Brick wall]]s.
** [[Stone brick wall]]s.
** [[Prismarine wall]]s.
** [[Nether brick wall]]s.
** [[Red nether brick slab]]s, [[red nether brick stairs]], and [[red nether brick wall]]s.
** [[End stone brick slab]]s, [[end stone brick stairs]], and [[end stone brick wall]]s.

=== General ===
; Mash-up packs
* Added Steven Universe Mash-up pack.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
; [[Cauldron]]s
* Can now hold [[lava]].
; [[Scaffolding]]
* Can now be placed on top of [[Glass|glass block]]s.
* More blocks can be placed on [[scaffolding]], including [[mob head]]s, and [[flower pot]]s.

=== Mobs ===
; [[Panda]]s
* Now panic when set on [[fire]].

=== General ===
* Tamed animals no longer need to be renamed with a name tag to send [[death message]]s to their owner.
* Added "Immediate Respawn" host option.
* Added several new loading screen tips and trivia.
* Added several new splash texts to the main menu.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== See also ==
* [[Java Edition 1.14]]
* [[Bedrock Edition 1.9.0]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox PlayStation 4 Edition versions}}

[[ja:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.88]]
[[pt:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.88]]
[[ru:1.88 (PlayStation 4 Edition)]]
[[uk:PS 1.88 (Legacy Console Edition)]]
[[zh:PlayStation 4版1.88]]