{{Infobox version
|title=1.93
|image=toystory Mash-up.jpg
|edition=PlayStation 4 Edition
|date=June 25, 2019
|prev=1.92
|next=1.94
}}

'''1.93''' was an update to [[PlayStation 4 Edition]] released on June 25, 2019, which fixed bugs.<ref>{{tweet|4JStudios|1143443714087497729|A bug fix patch for Minecraft: PlayStation 4 Edition is rolling out now in Europe and Japan, and later today in North America. Fix list is here|June 25, 2019}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== General ===
; [[Mash-up pack]]s
* Added the Toy Story mash-up pack.

== Fixes ==
; 8 issues fixed
* Fixed a crash that occurred while near a village.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when the player goes from the Nether to the Overworld.
* Fixed villagers having a chance to change their trade deals after saving/loading.
* Fixed scaling maps that would give you a map far away from your current position.
* Fixed iron golems not spawning in loaded villages.
* Fixed chests splitting and functioning as separate chests.
* Fixed stone slab recipe being incorrect in classic crafting.
* Fixed villager trading when one player is in the End or the Nether.

== Trivia ==
* The release date of this version coincides with the day that both seasons of [[Minecraft: Story Mode]] have been discontinued.

== See also ==
* [[Bedrock Edition 1.11.4]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox PlayStation 4 Edition versions}}

[[ja:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.93]]
[[pt:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.93]]
[[ru:1.93 (PlayStation 4 Edition)]]
[[uk:PS 1.93 (Legacy Console Edition)]]
[[zh:PlayStation 4版1.93]]