{{Infobox version
|title=1.92
|edition=PlayStation 4 Edition
|date=June 5, 2019
|prev=1.91
|next=1.93
}}

'''1.92''' was an update to [[PlayStation 4 Edition]] released on June 5, 2019, which fixed bugs in [[1.91]].<ref>{{tweet|4JStudios|1136230700515041280|A bug fix patch for Minecraft: PS4 Edition is rolling out now to fix some  player reported issues with the recent update. Fix list is here|June 5, 2019}}</ref>

== Changes ==
===Blocks===
;[[Stained Glass]] and [[Stained Glass Pane]]s
* Changed textures.
;[[Grindstone]]
* Changed textures.

== Fixes ==
;11 issue fixed
* Fixed a bug that could cause the game to lag or crash while exploring near Pillager Outposts.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when Mobs tried to pathfind through Berry Bushes.
* Fixed an occasional crash caused by Evoker Fangs.
* Fixed an occasional crash caused by interacting with Wandering Trader Llamas right after they spawn.
* Fixed an occasional crash caused by being near Campfire blocks.
* Fixed an occasional crash caused by scaling maps.
* Fixed a bug that could stop Farmers from picking up beetroot seeds.
* Fixed a bug that allowed Villagers to breed when they shouldn't.
* Added missing Banner and Sign "Place" tooltips.
* Updated textures for Grindstone and Stained Glass.
* Corrected some spelling mistakes.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox PlayStation 4 Edition versions}}

[[it:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.92]]
[[ja:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.92]]
[[pt:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.92]]
[[ru:1.92 (PlayStation 4 Edition)]]
[[uk:PS 1.92 (Legacy Console Edition)]]
[[zh:PlayStation 4版1.92]]