{{Infobox version
| title = 1.90
| image = Texture Update Logo.png
| edition = PlayStation 4 Edition
| name = [[Texture Update]]
| date = April 15, 2019
| prev = 1.89
| next = 1.91
}}
'''1.90''' was an update to ''[[PlayStation 4 Edition]]'' released on April 15, 2019, which added more [[Village & Pillage]] features.<ref>{{tweet|4JStudios|1117727836268314624|An update for Minecraft: PlayStation 4 Edition is out now! Loom, Lectern, Lantern, and more! Full changes are here|April 15, 2019}}</ref> This update is equivalent to [[Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]], only missing [[Experiments|Experimental Gameplay]] features, e.g. new [[village]]s.<ref>{{Mcnet|r10-update-on-ps4|R10 update on PS4}} ("R10" means "Release 1.10")</ref>

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Loom
|Lectern
|Lantern
|Oak Wood
|Spruce Wood
|Birch Wood
|Jungle Wood
|Acacia Wood
|Dark Oak Wood
|Stripped Oak Wood
|Stripped Spruce Wood
|Stripped Birch Wood
|Stripped Jungle Wood
|Stripped Acacia Wood
|Stripped Dark Oak Wood
|Crossbow
|Creeper Charge Banner Pattern
|Skull Charge Banner Pattern
|Flower Charge Banner Pattern
|Thing Banner Pattern
|Field Masoned Banner Pattern
|Bordure Indented Banner Pattern
|Shield
|Pillager Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Cat Spawn Egg BE
|Enchanted Book[&7Quick Charge I]
|Enchanted Book[&7Quick Charge II]
|Enchanted Book[&7Quick Charge III]
|Enchanted Book[&7Multishot]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing I]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing II]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing III]
|Enchanted Book[&7Piercing IV]
}}

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Loom]]'''
* Used to easily make patterns for [[banner]]s.
'''[[Lectern]]'''
* Placing a [[book and quill]] or [[written book]] on the lectern allows multiple players to read it together.
** [[Redstone comparator]] functionality is not available yet.
'''[[Lantern]]'''
* Acts as a new, hangable light source.
'''[[Wood|Wood and Stripped Wood]]'''
* A [[log]] block with the bark texture on all 6 sides.

=== Items ===
'''[[Crossbow]]'''
* New [[weapon]].
* Crossbows can be enchanted with three new [[enchantment]]s.
* Stronger than bow, but takes longer to recharge.
'''[[Banner Pattern]]'''
* Made with the Loom.
* Can be added to Banners to apply designs.
'''[[Shield]]'''
* [[Sneak]] while holding a shield in either hand to [[Blocking|block]].
* Banners cannot be applied to shields yet.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Pillager]]'''
* They are hostile mobs, considered a subset of [[illager]]s.
* Have 24 health.
* They wield [[crossbow]]s.
* Drop arrows and their crossbows when killed (affected by Looting).
* They will raid, or take over, [[village]]s, killing [[villager]]s.
* They cannot equip [[armor]] of any type.
* Only available through [[Creative]] mode.
'''[[Cat]]s'''
* Added a new skin: Jellie, the community cat contest winner.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Enchantment]]s'''
* [[Quick Charge]]
** Used on [[crossbow]]s to decrease the reload time.
* [[Multishot]] 
** Used on crossbows to shoot 3 arrows or [[firework]]s but only consumes 1.
* [[Piercing]]
** Used on crossbows to shoot through [[mob]]s.

=== General ===
'''Texture packs'''
* Added Minecraft Classic texture pack (built-in), which contains pre-[[Texture Update]] textures.

'''Trophies'''
* Added Expansion Pack 9, which contains five new trophies:
** (Silver) Atlantis? – Find an underwater ruin.
** (Bronze) Organizational Wizard – Rename a Shulker Box with an Anvil.
** (Bronze) Fruit on the Loom – Make a Banner with an Enchanted Apple stencil.
** (Silver) Plethora of Cats – Befriend twenty stray Cats.
** (Gold) Sail the 7 Seas – Visit all Ocean Biomes.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Chorus Flower]] '''
* Can now be broken when struck by an [[arrow]].
'''[[Crop]]s'''
* Now have placement sounds.
'''[[Dead Bush]] '''
* Can now be used as [[furnace]] fuel.
'''[[Dispenser]] '''
* Dispensers with shears in them can now shear [[sheep]] when activated.
'''[[Leaves]] '''
* May now drop [[stick]]s when decaying.
'''[[Sponge]] '''
* Placing wet sponge in [[the Nether]] and warm biomes will dry it out after some time.
'''White [[carpet]]s and undyed [[glass pane]]s'''
* Can now be dyed by surrounding dye with them in the [[crafting table]].
* Regular glass and glass panes have changed textures.
'''[[Log]]s'''
* Renamed from wood.

=== Items ===
'''[[Enchanted golden apple]]'''
* Renamed from "Golden Apple" to "Enchanted Apple" to match ''Bedrock Edition''.
'''[[Rabbit Stew]] and [[Beetroot Soup]] '''
* Now have shapeless crafting recipes.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Cat]]s'''
* Can now be healed by feeding them [[fish]].
'''[[Creeper]]s'''
* Can now drop a [[music disc]] if they are killed by a [[stray]], as well as a [[skeleton]].
'''[[Ghast]]s'''
* Now have glowing eyes and mouth when the [[programmer art]] texture pack is enabled.

=== General ===
* Holding light emitting blocks now lights up held items in first person view.

'''Textures'''
* The [[Texture Update]] textures have been added as the default pack.

== See also ==
* [[Java Edition 1.14]]
* [[Bedrock Edition 1.10.0]]

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox PlayStation 4 Edition versions}}

[[es:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.90]]
[[it:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.90]]
[[ja:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.90]]
[[pt:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.90]]
[[ru:1.90 (PlayStation 4 Edition)]]
[[uk:PS 1.90 (Legacy Console Edition)]]
[[zh:PlayStation 4版1.90]]