{{Infobox version
|title=1.85
|edition=PlayStation 4 Edition
|date=January 25, 2019
|prev=1.84
|next=1.88
}}

'''1.85''' was an update to [[PlayStation 4 Edition]] released on January 25, 2019, which fixes some bugs.<ref>{{tweet|4JStudios|1088723146407116801|A small bug fix update is rolling out now for Minecraft: PlayStation 4 Edition. Changes are here|January 25, 2019}}</ref>

== Changes ==
* [[Fire Resistance]] effect now hides the burning animation from the affected entity to match ''Bedrock Edition''.

== Fixes ==
; 11 issue fixed
* Fix for a crash when loading older worlds.
* Fix for large [[chest]]s appearing as two chests during multiplayer regular gameplay.
* {{bug|MCCE-8573}} – Double chests can still be opened if partially "blocked".
* Fix for [[bamboo]] not replacing [[Grass|tall grass]] and double tallgrass.
* Fix for missing recipe: [[lapis lazuli block]] to 9 [[lapis lazuli]].
* Fix for missing recipe: [[rose bush]] to [[red dye]].
* Fix for missing recipe: [[peony]] to [[pink dye]].
* Fix for [[Potion of Slow Falling]] not affecting players while [[elytra]] gliding.
* {{bug|MCCE-7060}} – [[Water]] cannot be placed in [[the End]].
* Fix for players being unable to pick up their thrown [[trident]] if they die before picking it back up.
* Fix for a [[Riptide]] trident not resetting the player’s fall counter.

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox PlayStation 4 Edition versions}}

[[ja:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.85]]
[[pt:PlayStation 4 Edition 1.85]]
[[ru:1.85 (PlayStation 4 Edition)]]
[[uk:PS 1.85 (Legacy Console Edition)]]
[[zh:PlayStation 4版1.85]]