{{Infobox version
|title=v0.10.0 alpha build 6
|image=Pocket Edition 0.10.0 build 6.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.10.0 alpha
|date=November 5, 2014
|versioncode=720100005 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 19)<br>
740100005 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 19)<br>
780100005 (x86, 19)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build6-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build6-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build6-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.9.5 alpha
|prev=v0.10.0 alpha build 5
|next=v0.10.0 alpha build 7
|nextparent=v0.10.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.10.0 alpha build 6''' is the sixth build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha|v0.10.0]].

== Changes ==
* Walking animations are generally faster and have been tweaked per-animal.
* Better fog on clouds, starting farther away and following the sky color.

== Fixes ==
'''9 bugs fixed'''

* Chunks shouldn't fail anymore to be saved.
* Fixed (again) the black screen problem on Android.
* Fixed a possible crash on clients when the server quits the game.
* Fixed growing crops not being saved.
* Fixed empty chests and mob spawners found in mineshafts and strongholds.
* Joining a world as a client doesn't reset the spawn position to the log-in position anymore.
* Mobs don't disappear anymore on clients if the client selects "Peaceful" difficulty.
* Clients on "Peaceful" don't auto-heal anymore if playing on a "Normal" difficulty server.
* The underwater fog now has the correct color in swamps.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.10.0 build 6]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 6]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.10.0 build 6]]
[[it:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 6]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 6]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.10.0 alpha build 6]]
[[zh:携带版0.10.0.b6]]