{{Infobox version
|title=alpha 1.0.5.0
|image=Pocket Edition 1.0.5.0.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=1.0.5
|date=March 10, 2017
|versioncode=841000500 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
842000500 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
871000500 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 24)<br>
872000500 (x86-jb, 24)
|prevparent=1.0.4
|prev=
|next=alpha 1.0.5.3
|nextparent=1.0.6
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Alpha 1.0.5.0''' (also known as 1.0.5 build 1) is the first build version released for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.5|1.0.5]]. This update added new commands, game rules, and command blocks.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004125532|title=MCPE Android Beta - 1.0.5 Build 1}}</ref>

== Additions ==

=== Blocks ===
* Added all types of [[command block]]s.

=== Commands ===
* {{cmd|clear}}
* {{cmd|difficulty}}
* {{cmd|effect}}
* {{cmd|gamerule}}
** {{code|drowningdamage|falldamage|firedamage|pvp|delimiter=and}}
* {{cmd|me}}
* {{cmd|particle}}
* {{cmd|playsound}}
* {{cmd|replaceitem}}
* {{cmd|spreadplayers}}
* {{cmd|stopsound}}
* {{cmd|testfor}}
* {{cmd|title}}

=== Items ===
* [[Minecart with Command Block]].
** Has a [[repeating command block]] in the [[minecart]].

== Changes ==
* Magnifying glass no longer appears over entered text in the Storage manager.
* Jump range of magma cubes fixed to correct value.
* Lapis lazuli icon now in enchanting tables.
* Accuracy of fireball shots from ghasts is now correct.

== Fixes ==
* {{bug|MCPE-8002}} Fixed the villagers & peaceful mobs despawning randomly bug.<ref>
{{tweet|_tommc|838823052066471937|I think I found the solution to entity despawn boys! And it turns out it was my fault. Oops! Hopefully it will be in 1.0.5!|March 7, 2017
}}</ref>
* Mobs moving between chunk borders no longer despawn when a crash occurs.
* When a player's position shifts when reloading a world, players will no longer get trapped & suffocate inside blocks.
* Fixed a crash that could happen when a command with targets was executed.
* Fixed a crash when trying to share a file after selecting cancel when trying to share previously.
* The share button for a single item now appears in the Storage menu.
* Fixed a crash that occurred sometimes when a player deleted content through the Storage manager.
* Fixed various issues with the Storage manager.
* Pots are now getting the correct color for tinted plants placed in them.
* Fixed another bug that made chat messages appear twice in game chat.
* When the fill command is used to place blocks and then immediately destroy them, "phantom" blocks no longer appear.
* Help command now displays command description.
* Global resource packs should no longer be deactivated when creating a new world or relaunching the game (Android & Fire only).
* Fixed a crash which happened when loading some worlds.
* {{bug|MCPE-12422}} Hostile mob spawning rules no longer ignore the Y coordinate.
* Fixed a crash that happened sometimes when a player incorrectly used the /kill command.
* {{bug|MCPE-11043}} Plants no longer stay in a player's inventory after being placed in a flower pot.
* {{bug|MCPE-18530}} Endermen again have idle sounds.
* {{bug|MCPE-17552}} The beacon's position is now correct when held in a player's hand.
* End_portal is now listed as a valid block for the /fill command.
* Toast notifications for Xbox Live invites should now appear. (iOS only)
* Clients can no longer change world settings when far away from the host.
* Slash commands now execute correctly even if the cursor is not at the end of the line.
* Rails, beds, and cocoa no longer leave behind "ghost" items when using the /fill command.
* Controller now works for scrolling on Apple TV. (Apple TV only)
* Fixed a crash that occurred when selecting the Choose New Skin button. (Gear VR only)
* {{bug|MCPE-19976}} Enchanted books again generate properly according to loot tables in dungeons/temples.
* Fixed packs sometimes being deleted after importing.
* {{bug|MCPE-17403}} Undead mobs again have their proper walking sounds.
* Fixed a crash on Realms when changing difficulty.
* Fixed a crash that occurred sometimes when a mob died.
* Regular rails can no longer be moved to invalid locations using pistons.</onlyinclude>

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.5.0]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.5.0]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 1.0.5.0]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.0.5 build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 1.0.5.0]]
[[ru:1.0.5 build 1 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.0.5.0]]