{{Infobox version
|title=v0.8.0 alpha build 2
|image=Pocket Edition 0.8.0 build 2.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.8.0 alpha
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MinecraftPE0.1.0/Minecraft%20PE%200.8.0%20build%202.apk Original]
|date=November 22, 2013
| versioncode = 300800002
|prevparent=v0.7.6 alpha
|prev=v0.8.0 alpha build 1
|next=v0.8.0 alpha build 3
|nextparent=v0.8.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>
'''v0.8.0 alpha build 2''' is the second build and first public build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha|v0.8.0]].

== Additions ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beetroot]]s'''

=== Items ===
* '''[[Beetroot Seeds]]'''
* '''[[Beetroot soup]]'''

=== Entities ===
'''[[Minecart]]s'''

=== General ===
* New [[Creative inventory]] with tabs.

== Changes ==
'''[[Leaves]]'''
* Side textures are no longer randomly rotated.
'''[[Rail]]s'''
* Are now craftable with six [[iron ingot]]s and a [[stick]].
'''[[Powered rail]]s'''
* Are now craftable with six gold ingots, a stick, and [[redstone dust]].

== Removals ==
'''[[Main menu]]'''
* Re-removed "Play on Realms" button.
'''[[Settings]]'''
* Removed "Show craftable recipes first" toggle.
** Is now always on by default.
* Removed "Smooth lighting" toggle.
** Is now always on by default.
'''[[Commands]]'''
* Removed the commands that were present in v0.8.0 alpha build 1.

== Fixes ==
{{dablink|The other bugs in the report linked below are not listed here as they were fixed in build 1. {{bug|MCPE-5592}} is not included here as it duplicates {{bug|MCPE-5572}}.}}
{{Expand section}}
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.8.0 beta build 2|otherissuescount=8
|;From released versions before 0.8.0
|MCPE-5572|Shooting a bow, throwing eggs/snowballs, and eating require block proximity.
}}
'''Other'''
* With the removal of the smooth lighting toggle, the textures of all blocks in a world are no longer randomly rotated when smooth lighting is off.
* Fixed the displayed names of blocks of coal, [[log|wood]], and wooden slabs.
* Blocks of coal have been given their own numeric ID (173) and no longer override the ID of [[nether bricks]] (112).
** Blocks of coal are no longer listed twice in the creative inventory.
** Blocks of coal can no longer be crafted with four [[nether brick]] items.
** Nether bricks once again have an associated block and item form.
** Blocks of coal from build 1 are automatically converted to nether bricks.
* Fixed the icons for all items in the inventory screen frequently becoming invisible.
* Fixed the appearance of clocks and compasses in the inventory.
* Fixed zombies, skeletons, creepers, and zombie pigmen moving significantly faster on land than intended.
* Animals now consume five items per second instead of 20 per second when being [[fed]].
* The particles produced by eating food and breaking projectiles are once again affected by gravity.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.8.0 build 2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha build 2]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.8.0 build 2]]
[[hu:Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.8.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.8.0 build 2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.8.0.b2]]