{{Infobox version
|image=Pocket Edition 1.1.0.5.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=1.1.0
|date=April 19, 2017
|protocol_manual=110
|prevparent=1.0.9
|prev=alpha 1.1.0.4
|next=alpha 1.1.0.8
|nextparent=1.1.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.1 build 5''' (also known as '''alpha 1.1.0.5''') is the fifth build released for [[Pocket Edition 1.1.0|1.1.0]].<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2017/04/changelog-for-11-beta-build-5.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 1.1 beta build 5|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref>

== Changes ==

'''[[Language]]s'''
* Renamed the Angličtina language to Čeština, and the Norsk language to Norsk bokmål.

== Fixes ==

* Exiting the crafting grid will not drop items on the ground unless the inventory is full.
* {{bug|MCPE-19876}} Mobs no longer get stuck in corners of [[fence]]s.
* Slimes & Magma Cubes again have the correct movement.
* {{bug|MCPE-20461}} The {{cmd|say}} command in command blocks no longer gives an incorrect message.
* [[Ender dragon]] movement is no longer really jittery when in flight.
* {{bug|MCPE-20847}} [[Shulker box]]es drop one shulker box when mined with a Silk Touch [[pickaxe]].
* All mobs should now be affected by the speed effect.
* Name auto-complete in [[commands]] works again.
* "Diamonds to You!" [[achievement]] again unlocks in multiplayer.
* [[Resource Pack]] purchase screen download progress bars now appear after purchasing DLC.
* {{bug|MCPE-19019}} [[Anvil]]s no longer drop as items when they fall on torches - and they stack now, too.
* Multiple coin offers are no longer highlighted at once when navigating the Marketplace with a controller.
* Cave spider [[spawner]]s now generate more often in mineshafts.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when [[chest]]s & [[cauldron]]s collided with each other.
* [[Arrow]]s no longer stutter when fired while riding an animal.
* Increased the speed and range of the [[Evoker]]'s Fang attack.
* Template worlds will once again appear on the create world screen.
* Rideable mobs can only be ridden when equipped with a [[saddle]].
* Particles traveling from [[bookshelves]] to [[enchantment table]]s will now travel over blocks.
* Fixed a crash when attempting to type more than four lines on a [[sign]].
* The ''Boost'' button is now visible when riding a Pig with [[Carrot on a Stick]] in hand. (Pocket Edition only)
* Chest on [[donkey]]/[[mule]] can now be accessed with a controller in Pocket UI.
* Fixed texture orientation on [[command block]]s.
* Fixed ''Broadcast to LAN'' not toggling off.
* Horses' heads no longer clip through player's face when moving up single blocks.
* [[Redstone torch]]es now have sound when burning out.
* The on-screen chat keyboard can now be re-opened.
* [[Repeater]]s now properly handle delay-based pulse generation.
* Various layout adjustments to the [[Minecraft Marketplace|Marketplace]] screen.
* Pressing {{key|Enter}} on the keyboard will now move to the next line when making a sign (Android only).
* Fixed a crash when trying to open a chest that was pushed or pulled by a sticky piston.
* Fixed texture colors of fences and [[fence gate]]s.
* {{bug|MCPE-20746}} Fixed 0xfe RakNet wrapper packet compression.
* Fixed a crash when standing in an [[End Portal]] as it is completed.
* {{bug|MCPE-5406}} [[Lava]] will no longer flow towards drops it cannot reach.
* {{bug|MCPE-1982}} Once again have fixed mobs going out of fences when reloading a world.
* Fixed the ''Leave Boat'' button missing from the screen.
* Minecarts will no longer jump off downward-sloping [[rail]]s.
* Fixed the height of shulker boxes.
* Fixed [[Totem of Undying]] lighting issues.
* Milk buckets will no longer disappear from a full hotbar after milking a [[cow]].
* Fixed inventory and player icons for [[Exploration Map]]s.
* {{cmd|replaceitem}} will now work with the off-hand slot.
* {{bug|MCPE-21142}} You can again craft [[dispenser]]s using the Pocket UI.
* {{bug|MCPE-20960}} [[Vex]]es will still have their swords when you reload a world.
* Fixed melon slices so they don't turn into more [[melon]]s.
* [[Ender crystal]] explosion is now data driven for added world security.
* Copying a block now places the copied block in the empty item slot when holding an item in hand and having an empty slot in the [[hotbar]].
* Fixed a crash when clicking on the ''Sign in for Free'' button while trying to download game [[music]].
* Download of Redstone Mansion now updates the action button properly.
* Panoramas now load properly.
* All players can now ride mounts when it is on a [[lead]], not just the owners.
* {{cmd|locate village}} command now returns coordinates of the nearest village.
* All [[Resource pack]]s should now be displayed in the Global Resource list, both in the settings menu & create world menu.
* Players are again able to push mobs into [[minecart]]s & [[boat]]s.
* {{bug|MCPE-19535}} [[Blaze]]s should no longer be able to one-hit kill players with a small fireball.
* {{bug|MCPE-19361}} {{cmd|fill}} command changes should now be saved.
* Text in buttons in the [[Realms]] update screen should now be properly aligned.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}


== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 1.1.0.5]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 1.1.0.5]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 1.1.0.5]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.1 build 5]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 1.1.0.5]]
[[ru:Alpha 1.1.0.5 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.1.0.5]]