{{Infobox version
|title=alpha 1.0.3.0
|image=Pocket Edition 1.0.3.0.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=1.0.3
|date=February 1, 2017
|versioncode=841000300 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
842000300 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
871000300 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
872000300 (x86-jb, 22)
|prevparent=1.0.2
|prev=
|next=
|nextparent=1.0.4
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Alpha 1.0.3.0''' (also known as 1.0.3 build 1) is a beta build released for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.3|1.0.3]] which added support for the Dutch language and fixed many bugs and crashes.<ref>{{tweet|darngeek|826738195723386881|Hopper tick order fixes, Observer arrow is pointing correct, lots of crash fixes and more Candy and 🇳🇱 language :D|Feb 1, 2017}}</ref><ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004127832|title=MCPE Android Beta - 1.0.3}}</ref><ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2017/02/changelog-for-103-beta-build.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 1.0.3 beta build|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref> This is the first build released in 2017. This is the final alpha released in 2017.

== Additions ==

==== General ====
* Support for the Dutch language.

==== Multiplayer ====
* Added a TransferPacket ({{cmd|transferserver}}) for servers which allows them to transfer a player to another server.<ref>https://twitter.com/shoghicp/status/826665876057423873</ref><ref>https://twitter.com/shoghicp/status/826710264984776704</ref>
* Servers can now detect a lot of useful data about clients.<ref>https://twitter.com/NiclasOlofsson/status/826774029524688898</ref>

== Fixes ==
* {{bug|MCPE-15502}} Observer top texture always faces north
* {{bug|MCPE-17421}} Server browser not showing online/offline state for external servers
* Fixed an issue causing servers to blink between online and offline status.
* Fixed a realms crash when a player exits.
* Fixed a crash when using some items.
* Fixed a server crash when a player entered a mutated biome.
* Fixed an issue that caused pressure plates, buttons, and other Redstone items to become stuck.
* Fixed an issue with hoppers not ticking the proper order.
* Fixed an issue when destroying a door.
* Fixed an issue with item duplication.
* Fixed an issue allowing a player to incorrectly obtain End Gateway blocks.
* Observer block's arrows should now point in the direction of power.
* Observer blocks will no longer be placed upside-down.
* Fixed an issue where realms members that were not your friends were not being displayed.
* Bats should spawn more often.
* Fixed an issue with End Gateway textures on mobile devices.</onlyinclude>

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.3.0]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.3.0]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 1.0.3.0]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.0.3 build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 1.0.3.0]]
[[ru:1.0.3 build 1 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.0.3.0]]