{{Infobox version
|title=v0.15.90 alpha build 1
|image=Pocket Edition 0.16.0 build 4.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|internal=0.15.90.7
|type=Build
|parent=v0.16.0 alpha
|date=September 16, 2016
|versioncode=840159007 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
841159007 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
870159007 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
871159007 (x86-jb, 22)
|prevparent=v0.15.10 alpha
|prev=v0.16.0 alpha build 3
|next=v0.16.0 alpha build 5
|nextparent=v0.16.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.16.0 alpha build 4'''<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/09/0160-beta-changelog-build-4-aka-015907.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: 0.16.0 beta changelog build 4 (aka 0.15.90.7)|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref><ref>https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15701</ref> (labelled '''v0.15.90 alpha build 1''' in-game and '''0.15.90.7'''<ref>http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/09/0160-beta-build-numbers.html</ref> internally) is the fourth build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha|v0.16.0]], also known as the [[Boss Update]].

== Additions ==
=== Mobs ===
* [[Wither]]
** {{Version exclusive}}: When its health reaches 50%, it spawns 3–4 [[wither skeleton]]s.
** {{Version exclusive}}: New animation when created and killed.
** {{Version exclusive}}: New sounds.

=== Items ===
* [[Nether star]]
* {{Version exclusive}}: [[Potion]] of Decay.
**{{Version exclusive}}: Splash [[potion]] of Decay.
* {{Version exclusive}}: [[Arrow]] of Decay.

=== Blocks ===
* [[Beacon]]
** The beam is incorrectly displayed by outside.
***Can be seen correctly by inside.
***Cannot be colored as dyed glass doesn't exist.

== Changes ==
* Tweaked the elder guardian's hitbox. 
* Modified natural spawn rates for mobs to where they should be (wither skeleton).
* Fixed performance issues (FPS drop).
* Lots of work on horses.
* Tweaked some UI spacing issues.
* Tweaked some issues with arrows.
* More piston work.
* Disabled the {{cmd|clearfixedinv}}, {{cmd|setfixedinvslot}} and {{cmd|wsserver}} commands, introduced in [[Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha build 1|build 1]].
** They can be manually turned back on in files (commands/education.json).
* Removed [[NPC]] [[spawn egg]].
* {{Version exclusive}}: [[Creepers]] and untamed [[ocelots]] now have idle sounds. These were removed (at least for creepers) in a later unknown update.

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.15.90.7|otherissuescount=41
|;From released versions before v0.16.0
|MCPE-5272|Empty buckets can´t collect water when underwater (Creative only)
|MCPE-7848|Grass does not grow on dirt under fences or cobblestone walls
|MCPE-8212|Arrows bounce off tamed [wolves] but not tamed cats
|MCPE-10353|Some keyboard keys are dead
|MCPE-11583|Milking a cow (or mooshroom) with a single bucket (or bowl) immediately consumes the milk (or stew, if the player is hungry)
|MCPE-12467|Nether mobs can die in any bodies of lava
|MCPE-13304|Double Flower Duplication Bug
|MCPE-13421|Wolves can be fed with raw and cooked fish
|MCPE-14142|Strange font behavior (width, size...)
|MCPE-14487|All mobs take knockback damage from splash potion of harming II
|MCPE-14514|Creepers are mute when attacked
|MCPE-14521|Undead/Passive mobs still alive when get hit by tipped arrows of healing/harming
|MCPE-14525|Horses show open button before fully tamed
|MCPE-14526|Horse is unrideable while tied to a fence, and ride button is shown
|MCPE-14776|Holding Flint and Steel when focusing on a Creeper doesn't show ignite button
|MCPE-15052|Breaking ice creates water source block in the Nether
|MCPE-15086|Baby horses don't show feed button
|MCPE-15981|Armor take damage when we break blocks with them
|MCPE-16009|Trying to tame horse while holding saddle bug.
|MCPE-16160|Mobs don't burn in sunlight while on soul sand.
|MCPE-16283|Redstone torch burn/turn off when placed on the side of a piston
|MCPE-16292|Wither Skeletons and Blazes Do Not Spawn Again in Nether Fortresses
|MCPE-16417|Inception achievement not unlocking
|MCPE-16743|Items on the ground are facing the opposite direction
|;From v0.16.0 development versions
|MCPE-16652|Cannot Choose Custom Skin or change between Steve and Alex
|MCPE-16653|Exit Game confirmation incorrectly displaying vr.warning.exitGameWarning
|MCPE-16662|Logging in to Xbox Live text is behind the settings button
|MCPE-16678|Sea lantern texture bug
|MCPE-16682|Everything disappears when opening any GUI
|MCPE-16691|Water Breathing doesn't increase visibility
|MCPE-16696|Hoppers duplicating items
|MCPE-16715|Blank Spawn Egg Crashes Game
|MCPE-16724|Cannot Sign out of XBL / Switch User in 0.16.0 Menu
|MCPE-16741|{{cmd|gamemode}} has incorrect feedback message
|MCPE-16743|Items on the ground are facing the opposite direction
|MCPE-16779|Changing Gamemode when Flying gives Flight Control Buttons in Survival
|MCPE-16791|Button13 in controller settings has incorrect name - key.interactwithtoast
|MCPE-16802|Chat / Text Input Cursor is Misaligned (Too Low)
|MCPE-16826|Top layer of mob texture is darkened (possibly wrong shadow?)
|MCPE-16876|Guardians sink while attacking with Lazer 
|MCPE-16888|Typing /help 1, or /help 3 doesn't show which page you type in
}}

'''Others'''
* Mob steps can be heard again.
* Players can fill [[bucket]]s while underwater, even in creative.
* Fixed it so that potions of harming will kill mobs rather than just making them drop loot.
* Replaced placeholder with the correct names of items.
* Guardian & elder guardian attack animations are visible again.
* Fixed attribute inconsistencies in mobs & fixed multiple attribute loading bugs (some mobs ran too fast, some mobs had incorrect health, some mobs didn't show the correct health in their health bar.
* Fixed crash after joining a LAN game.
* Fixed randomly breaking [[boat]]s.
* Monster spawner no longer crashes the game when difficulty is set to peaceful.
* Fixed a crash when a player threw a [[snowball]], [[egg]], or [[splash potion]]s.
* Zombie pigmen are no longer hostile towards mobs.
* No more diving when riding a horse, pig, or donkey.
* Guardian laser beams change color now.
* Markers on maps now correctly show direction when riding (animal, minecart, etc.)
* Gamerule settings now persist in saved games.
* Fixed issue where some mobs dropped no items.
* Players again spawn in "safe places" during initial world generation.
* Players no longer float above beds while sleeping.
* Fixed crash when server spawns guardians & elder guardians.
* You can hear the laser sound for guardians & elder guardians again.
* Fixed items dropping from mobs incorrectly (not dropping for some, dropping for some that shouldn't have drops)
* Chat window fixed- automatically updates messages when they come in.
* Two [[zombie villagers]] no longer spawn when a single villager is turning into a zombie.
* Status effects no longer present after a player's death.
* Nether mobs no longer lose fire resistance.
* Fixed projectiles so they can be shot in directions, not just at targets.
* Invisible players can no longer be seen and attacked by mobs.
* Creepers now make hissing ignition sounds again.
* Iron golem now has an attack animation again.
* [[Thunderstorm|Lightning]] strikes have sounds again.
* Fireballs fixed: [[Blaze]] fireballs set blocks on fire & large fireballs are visible again.
* Fixed assorted crashes when loading/importing older worlds.
* Projectiles no longer hurt the player when reflected.
* [[Iron golem]]s will attack aggressive mobs again to defend [[villagers]] and themselves. <!-- What about other iron golems? --->
* Fixed rare case of mobs spawning without heads.
* Fixed [[slime]] spawning size issues.
* [[Zombie pigmen]] are again spawning with golden swords.
* Elder guardians now attack the player.
* Player no longer gets disconnected from the Realm after suspending & resuming the device/game.
* Fixed a crash that can occur when a [[skeleton horse]] trap is triggered on peaceful.
* Invalid ID blocks no longer cause the game to crash as a result of a hang in chunk rendering.</onlyinclude>

==References==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.16.0 build 4]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha build 4]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.16.0 build 4]]
[[it:Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha build 4]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.16.0 alpha build 4]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.16.0 build 4 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.16.0.b4]]