{{Infobox version
| title = v1.1.3
| image = Pocket Edition 1.1.3.png
| name = 
| type = 
| edition = Pocket Edition
| internal = 1.1.3.52</br> '''Windows 10''': 1.1.352.0
| date = July 6, 2017
| prevparent = 1.1.0
| prev = 1.1.2
| next = 1.1.4
| nextparentlink = Bedrock Edition 1.2.0
| nextparent = 1.2.0
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.1.3''' is an update to {{PE}} and [[:Category:Bedrock_Edition|its derived editions]] which provides some additions to [[the Nether]] as well as fixing crashing and improving stability.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004127592|title=MCPE/WIN10/GEAR VR - 1.1.3}}</ref>

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|Magma Block BE
|Bone Block
|Nether Wart Block
|Red Nether Bricks}}

=== Blocks ===
'''[[Magma block]]'''
* Found in [[the Nether]], generating 4 blobs per chunk between Y=27 and Y=36.
** It has a similar frequency to blocks like [[andesite]] in the [[Overworld]].
* Crafted using four [[magma cream]].
* Mobs and players take {{hp|1}} damage every second while touching it, similar to a [[cactus]].
** Unlike cactus or [[fire]], this block doesn't destroy items that touch it.
** Mobs avoid magma blocks that are in the way.
* Most mobs don't spawn on magma blocks. Exceptions are [[magma cube]]s, [[zombie pigmen]], and [[squid]].
* If the player is sneaking, wearing [[Frost Walker]]-enchanted armor, or under the [[Fire Resistance]] effect, they do not take damage.
* If the player dies by standing on it, a new death message will appear: "[Player] discovered floor was lava."
** If the player dies by the block, but after being damaged by a mob or player, the death message will be: "[Player] walked into danger zone due to [Mob or Player]."
* Removes water blocks on top when [[block tick|randomly ticked]].
* It produces smoke [[particles]] under the [[rain]].
* It emits as much [[light]] as it receives from other sources.
** e.g. A magma block next to a torch will emit light at level 13, as that was the light level it received from the torch.
*** If the torch were to be removed then it will search for the next brightest source of light; if no source is found then it will continue to emit the same amount of light as the torch.
*** It can emit daylight if it was exposed to the sun.
* Has a flowing magma animation.

'''[[Bone block]]'''
* Crafted by filling a 3×3 square in the [[crafting table]] with [[bone meal]].
* Placing it in a crafting table yields 9 bone meal back.
* Found underground in desert and swamps as part of the [[fossil]] structure.

'''[[Nether wart block]]'''
* Crafted by filling a 3×3 square in the crafting table with [[Nether wart]].
* It cannot be crafted back into Nether wart.

'''[[Red Nether brick]]s'''
* Crafted by placing a 2×2 checkerboard of 2 [[Nether brick]] and 2 [[Nether wart]] in a crafting table.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Fossil]]s'''
* Generates 15–24 blocks underground in [[desert]]s, [[swampland]]s, and their M and hills variants. Each chunk has a {{frac|1|64}} chance of generating a fossil.
* Composed of [[bone block]]s and some [[coal ore]], arranged as to resemble the skulls and spines of giant extinct creatures.
** There are 4 variants of the skull, and 4 variants of the spine sections.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Added new entries:
** [[Adventure Time Mash-up Pack]]
** Summer Mini-Games Festival by [[Noxcrew]]
** Wisteria Grove by Imagiverse
** The Kingdom of Torchwall by Imagiverse

== Changes ==
=== World Generation ===
'''[[Nether]]'''
* [[Magma block]]s now generate within the dimension

=== Gameplay === 
'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Relics of the Privateers (World).
** Behavior Packs:
*** Updated the behavior files of remaining used mobs to 1.1.0 format.
*** Fixed an issue with small crabs not moving or attacking.
** Worlds:
*** Removed many extra colonials from Portalina and Brinewall to reduce lag.
*** Removed many extra crab entities from around the giant crab.
*** Thinned out many pirate encampments, for balance purposes.
*** Some items left floating in the world removed.

'''[[Add-on]]s'''
* Updated resource and behavior packs.
* All behavior components and AI goal parameters now appear in the documentation.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed several crashes and improved stability.
* The game will no longer crash when blocks are placed on the edge of [[old]] worlds.</onlyinclude>

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|kr_ggbGk4tY}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition 1.1.3]]
[[es:Pocket Edition 1.1.3]]
[[fr:Version portable 1.1.3]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.1.3]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket 1.1.3]]
[[ru:1.1.3 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.1.3]]