{{Infobox version
|title=v0.10.0 alpha build 2
|image=Pocket Edition 0.10.0 build 2.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.10.0 alpha
|date=October 23, 2014
|versioncode=720100001 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 19)<br>
740100001 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 19)<br>
780100001 (x86, 19)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build2-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build2-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build2-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.9.5 alpha
|prev=v0.10.0 alpha build 1
|next=v0.10.0 alpha build 3
|nextparent=v0.10.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.10.0 alpha build 2''' is the second build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha|v0.10.0]].

== Changes ==

* Added smooth lighting back on [[leaves]].
* Smoother depth transitions between swamps and normal water.
* The "round fog" is now actually round.

== Fixes ==

'''28 bugs fixed'''

* Added back the cross-hair when using Split Controls or the bow.
* Fixed a lot of graphical issues when using Fancy on some old GPUs (PowerVR SGX535, SGX531, SGX540)
* Fixed a crash when rendering [[minecart]]s.
* Fixed a random crash when starting some worlds.
* Fixed a crash when emitting particles.
* Fixed disappearing GUI and weird mob bodies when having certain items on screen.
* Fixed missing sides on [[slab]]s.
* Fixed [[sign]]s text showing through walls.
* Fixed items having incorrect lighting.
* Fixed items blinking white when next to a blinking [[TNT]].
* Items no longer push you when falling.
* Fixed an issue with 3rd person camera not raycasting through non-solid blocks.
* Fixed arrows getting stuck on non-solid blocks.
* Fixed falling tiles getting stuck on [[torch]]es.
* Fixed mineshafts spawning a ton of wooden platforms if discovered at night.
* Fixed [[mushroom]]s being able to generate anywhere in chunks loaded in at night.
* Fixed black lines on torches.
* Mooshrooms now consume bowls when "milked".
* Fixed a possible crash when falling under the world.
* [[Bed]] undersides now have the correct texture.
* Fixed [[monster Spawner|Mob Spawner]] particles.
* Fixed damage bars in inventories.
* Water in dark places does not have bright borders anymore.
* Fixed water transparency under lily pads in swamps.
* Glass blocks do not have flickering faces between each other anymore.
* Fixed colors of vines.
* Baby animals are now able to swim without sinking.
* Fixed weird water colors when placing blocks on deep water.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.10.0 build 2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 2]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.10.0 build 2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.10.0 alpha build 2]]
[[zh:携带版0.10.0.b2]]