{{Infobox version
|title=v0.9.0 alpha build 9
|edition=Pocket Edition
|image=Pocket Edition 0.9.0 build 9 in game.jpg
|image2=Pocket Edition 0.9.0 build 9.png
|type=Build
|parent=v0.9.0 alpha
|date=June 25, 2014
|versioncode=300900008 (armeabi-v7a-gb)<br>
500900008 (armeabi-v7a-hc)<br>
700900008 (x86)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build9-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build9-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build9-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.8.2 alpha
|prev=v0.9.0 alpha build 8
|next=v0.9.0 alpha build 10
|nextparent=v0.9.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.9.0 alpha build 9 (RC1)''' is the ninth build version and first release candidate for [[Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha|v0.9.0]].

== Changes ==
* Mob spawners now emit light.
* Creepers and skeletons now use the old AI again.
* Tame and sit interact button for wolves.
*  Crafting screen no longer switches to the next recipe when you can't make the current one.

== Fixes ==
'''13 bugs fixed'''
* Crash with wolves.
* Crash when removing blocks under rails.
* Blocks placed where player was standing.
* Wrong spawn location.
* Entities are now more reliably saved.
* Crafting of unlimited number items.
* Missing smooth lighting on top snow and carpets.
* Wolves moving around while sitting.
* Offspring was untamed in certain cases.
* Creepers floating above the ground.
* Wrong collar color on wolves.
* The interact button is now only "pressed" when released.
* Black borders on particles when destroying torches.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:v0.9.0 alpha build 9}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.9.0 build 9]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 9]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.9.0 build 9]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 9]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.9.0 alpha build 9]]
[[zh:携带版0.9.0.b9]]