{{Infobox version
|image=Pocket Edition 1.1.0.9.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=1.1.0
|date=April 27, 2017
|protocol_manual=112
|prevparent=1.0.9
|prev=alpha 1.1.0.8
|nextparent=1.1.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.1 build 7''' (also known as '''alpha 1.1.0.9''') is the seventh and final build released for [[Pocket Edition 1.1.0|1.1.0]].<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2017/04/changelog-for-11-beta-build-7.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 1.1 beta build 7|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref>

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
'''[[Beacon]]'''
* Updated the recipe to not use a specified aux value and instead use the default.

'''[[Wool]], [[Terracotta]], [[Glass|Stained glass]]'''
* Palette colors now match {{el|je}}'s palette colors.

=== Items ===
'''[[Spawn egg]]s '''
* Texture for update for [[husk]], [[shulker]], [[silverfish]], [[stray]] and [[zombie horse]].

'''[[Potion]]'''
* Updated texture of the Potion of Decay.

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Shulker]] '''
* Retextured to match {{el|je}}.

'''[[Zombie villager]]s '''
* Now have the unique sounds that they do in the ''Java Edition''.

=== World generation ===
'''[[Woodland mansion]]'''
* Chests loot tables have been altered to allow for treasure enchantments.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Inventory]]'''
* The "crafting" label above the 2×2 crafting grid was removed.

'''[[Hand]]'''
* Off-hand items are now hidden in 3rd person view when using a bow rather than being drawn at wrong angles and positions.

'''[[Hotbar]]'''
* Tweaked some touch issues.

=== General ===
'''Functions'''
* "EnchantRandomly" function has been modified to use treasure flags.

== Fixes ==
* The provoke range of [[endermen]] is no longer too short.
* [[Endermite]]s no longer occasionally spin around for a few seconds when not chasing a target.
* It no longer takes an unreasonable amount of time to break [[cobblestone wall]]s.
* Snowballs now generate particles when they break.
* Dead bushes again catch fire & disappear.
* "This bed is occupied" message now only appears for the player trying to get in the occupied [[bed]], not the player currently using it.
* Villagers no longer prioritize harvesting crops over sharing food with hungry villagers.
* [[Zombie]]s and [[skeleton horse]]s no longer die unexpectedly.
* Tipped Arrow of Decay now has the correct texture.
* Ender pearls now show the correct particles when breaking.
* Blaze rods are now shown correctly when held in 3rd person view.
* Removed the extra white pixel in the Peony thumbnail.
* Gameplay sounds again load on the main menu.
* [[Elytra]] has sounds again.
* "Beam Me Up" achievement works again.
* Miscellaneous tweaks & fixes to Marketplace.
* The frequency of enchanted books has increased to account for the new enchantments.
* Using bone meal on a fully grown crop doesn't consume the bone meal anymore.
* Fire ticks properly now- it spreads & extinguishes in an appropriate amount of time.
* Reduced the size of the hitbox on arrows.
* Villagers now use the correct recipe to craft [[bread]] and consume wheat.
* Fixed the animation issues with equipped, off-hand items in 3rd person view.
* Villager trading window no longer closes immediately on the first attempt at a trade.
* Draw distance range is no longer too high on low memory devices.
* Fixed arrows under water from constantly spewing bubbles.
* Fixed projectiles never reporting that they were on the ground.
* Fixed text on signs appearing too high.
* Fixed white wool/carpet appearing just as "[[wool]]" and "[[carpet]]".
* Villagers and zombie villagers now appear in [[igloo]]s
* Fixed a crash that happened when a player fell in the [[void]].
* [[Mob]]s are no longer invincible if the [[player]] give them a [[totem of undying]].
* Mobs now play footsteps sounds.
* The profile changes the player's name to the default if they leave the name blank.
* Fixed a crash if the player's [[language]] is German & they use a hyphen.
* Texture packs should no longer randomly decide not to work or show corrupted textures anymore.
* Players in multiplayer can now see offhand items of other players.
* Chests can now be opened if an entity stands in the same block.
* Infinity bows no longer take arrows from the offhand slot.
* [[Frosted ice]] blocks that turn back into water now flow correctly.
* [[Shulker box]]es now open under top-half slab blocks.
* Horse, mules, and donkeys now take damage from cacti while mounted.
* Shulkers now get damaged by & teleport away/out of fire & lava.
* Zombies suffocate again.
* [[Spawn egg]]s renamed in an anvil now respect special names when spawning mobs.
* Players can again shoot at a mob less than 5 blocks away.
* Players can now shoot themselves with a bow and arrow.
** And can also splash themselves with potions.
* Players no longer [[suffocate]] while riding horses underneath blocks that aren't actually suffocating the player.
* Fixed a few bugs regarding horses suffocating & taking [[damage]] when they shouldn't be doing either.
* Players can again exit the Exit World menu with the {{key|esc}} key.
* Fixed [[clouds]] when [[fancy graphic]]s is on.

== Trivia ==
* The developers tried to fix a bug where different slab types override each other. The fix did not work.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}


== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 1.1.0.9]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 1.1.0.9]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 1.1.0.9]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.1 build 7]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 1.1.0.9]]
[[ru:Alpha 1.1.0.9 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.1.0.9]]