{{Infobox version
|title=v0.11.0 alpha build 4
|image=Pocket Edition 0.11.0 build 4.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.11.0 alpha
|date=April 15, 2015
|versioncode=720110004 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 21)<br>
740110004 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 21)<br>
780110004 (x86, 21)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build4-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build4-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build4-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.10.5 alpha
|prev=v0.11.0 alpha build 3
|next=v0.11.0 alpha build 5
|nextparent=v0.11.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.11.0 alpha build 4''' is the fourth build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha|Alpha 0.11.0]].

== Additions ==
* Implemented milk drinking to remove mob effects.

== Changes ==
* Version name now includes the beta number.

== Fixes ==
'''[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15313 13 bugs fixed]'''

* Sleeves are now properly rendered in the first-person mode.
* Fixed potion duration rendering for high values.
* Fixed some gamepad menu issues.
* Fixed spawning high up in the air.
* Fixed wrong player spawning rotation and velocity.
* Fixed chat background rendering when using bold.
* Changed the way skins are loaded and saved.

'''From released versions before 0.11.0'''
* {{bug|MCPE-7889}} - Game crashes when pressing 'Quit to title'.

'''From the 0.11.0 development versions'''
* {{bug|MCPE-8163}} - Fishing bobber gets stuck in boat.
* {{bug|MCPE-8218}} - Existing old world type game crashes.
* {{bug|MCPE-8220}} - Fishing pole bobber glitch.
* {{bug|MCPE-8275}} - Drinking milk does not remove potion effects.
* {{bug|MCPE-8277}} - Enderman angry animation only on client side.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.11.0 build 4]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 4]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.11.0 build 4]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.11.0 alpha build 4]]
[[zh:携带版0.11.0.b4]]