{{Infobox version
|title=v0.11.0 alpha build 11
|image=Pocket Edition 0.11.0 build 11.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.11.0 alpha
|date=May 18, 2015
|versioncode=720110011 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 21)<br>
740110011 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 21)<br>
780110011 (x86, 21)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build11-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build11-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build11-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.10.5 alpha
|prev=v0.11.0 alpha build 10
|next=v0.11.0 alpha build 12
|nextparent=v0.11.1 alpha
|sort=v0.11.0 alpha build 9b <!-- so it sorts after build 9 -->
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.11.0 alpha build 11''' is the eleventh build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha|v0.11.0]].

== Additions ==
* [[Wolf|Wolves]] can now eat [[rotten flesh]].
* [[Fishing rod]]s can now be used in [[Third person view|3rd person]].
* Added all [[tool]] types to the [[Creative]] inventory.

== Changes ==
* Tweaked the [[skin pack]]s.
* Changed the connection indicator to a dot that shows if you can connect or not.

== Fixes ==
'''[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15323 23 bugs fixed]'''

* Fixed crash when closing server.
* Fixed crash on joining worlds.
* Fixed crash on disabling Wi-Fi.
* Fixed crash on switching worlds.
* Fixed [[minecart]]s and [[boat]]s for [[multiplayer]].
* Fishing button now gets priority over the leave boat button.
* Fixed bug with [[furnace]] [[smelting]] whilst output slot is full.
* Selected [[language]] is now centered in the language list.
* Fixed players in creative mode dying by [[void]].
* Fixed boat riding behavior on reconnect.
* Players no longer spawn in transparent [[blocks]].
* Fixed block break speed when under haste effect.
* Fixed boats’ hitbox so that it doesn’t prevent [[fishing]] and breaking blocks while looking down.

'''From released versions before 0.11.0'''
* {{bug|MCPE-7891}} - at (x,0,y), top of the texture of the block shows whereas the sides are invisible.
* {{bug|MCPE-7997}} - Spawning on the soil above killing place in cave.
* {{bug|MCPE-8045}} - Mobs can breed when separated.
* {{bug|MCPE-8123}} - Entities invisible when at/above the height limit.
* {{bug|MCPE-8582}} - Invisible bottom layer.

'''From the 0.11.0 development versions'''
* {{bug|MCPE-8394}} - Segfault when low memory event fires.
* {{bug|MCPE-8421}} - Black Screen.
* {{bug|MCPE-8457}} - Crash when back on MCPE from another app (Multitasking).

'''From the previous development version'''
* {{bug|MCPE-8452}} - Skin packs free skins selection bug.
* {{bug|MCPE-8487}} - Crash when exiting old type world.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.11.0 build 11]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 11]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.11.0 build 11]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 11]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.11.0 alpha build 11]]
[[zh:携带版0.11.0.b11]]