{{Infobox version
|title=v0.13.0 alpha build 2
|image=Pocket Edition 0.13.0 build 2.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.13.0 alpha
|date=November 4, 2015
|versioncode=720130002 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 22)<br>
740130002 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 22)<br>
760130002 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
780130002 (x86, 22)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.13.0-build2.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.13.0-build2-gingerbread.apk Gingerbread]
|prevparent=v0.12.3 alpha
|prev=v0.13.0 alpha build 1
|next=v0.13.0 alpha build 3
|nextparent=v0.13.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.13.0 alpha build 2'''<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2015/11/changelog-for-013-build-2.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 0.13 build 2!|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref> is the second build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.13.0 alpha|v0.13.0]].

== Changes ==
* [[Obsidian]] now breaks in 6.5 seconds rather than 3.
* [[Minecart]]s now stack on top of each other.
* [[Villager]]s now open doors of all kinds.

== Fixes ==
* The terrain doesn't flicker invisible anymore when too many chunks are active.
* Fixed a crash when it's night in a village and you're holding a door not made of oak.
* The held item's movement in first person is more fluid now.
* Fixed mobs disappearing after going through a portal.
* Removed redundant [[tripwire]] recipes.
* Single pieces of [[redstone dust]] now only get powered from below.
* Doors now pop correctly when destroyed by removing the block below them.
* Mobs aren't pulled immediately back into [[minecart]]s after being thrown out.
* Ocelot [[mob head]]s don't disappear anymore.
* [[Block of redstone]] is now properly translated.
* Fixed item duplication glitch in the [[anvil]].
* Fixed various redstone-related bugs and inconsistencies.
* Fixed corrupted images in the language screen.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.13.0 build 2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.13.0 alpha build 2]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.13.0 build 2]]
[[it:Pocket Edition v0.13.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.13.0 alpha build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.13.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.13.0 build 2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.13.0.b2]]