{{Infobox version
|title=v0.9.0 alpha build 2
|edition=Pocket Edition
|image=Pocket Edition 0.9.0 build 2.png
|type=Build
|parent=v0.9.0 alpha
|date=June 10, 2014
|versioncode=300900001 (armeabi-v7a-gb)<br>
500900001 (armeabi-v7a-hc)<br>
700900001 (x86)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build2-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build2-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build2-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.8.2 alpha
|prev=v0.9.0 alpha build 1
|next=v0.9.0 alpha build 3
|nextparent=v0.9.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.9.0 alpha build 2''' is the second build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha|v0.9.0 alpha]].

== Additions ==
'''[[Sounds]]'''
* Added sounds to [[villager]]s, [[slime]]s and [[wolves]].

== Changes ==
'''[[Creative inventory]]'''
* Additions:
** [[Monster Spawner]]
** Villager [[spawn egg]]
'''[[Endermen]]'''
* Now teleport out of the way of arrows.
'''[[Monster Spawner]]s'''
* Now have breaking particles.
* Spawners placed by the player are now empty spawners instead of pig spawners.
* Can be configured to spawn the desired mob by using a spawn egg on one.
'''[[Render distance]]'''
* If the player's render distance is set to a value below the minimum available in the options screen, their render distance is automatically set to the minimum available value when the game is opened.
'''[[Zombie]]s'''
* Are now neutral towards Creative mode players.
* Now they attack the villagers
* The AI and mechanics was changed, made much more horde-like.

== Fixes ==
'''17 bugs fixed'''
* Worlds no longer get stuck during loading.
* Fixed a subtle crash and world corruption.
* Fixed a possible crash on quit.
* Removed the gray quad on split controls.
* Crops, glass panes, and iron bars no longer render their back sides.
* Added name to podzol.
* Desert villages are now made of sandstone.
* Fire dies out faster in the jungle and roofed forests to prevent runaway fires.
* Fixed the chunk [[section]] at 0,0,0 having a black border around it.
* Red sand does not transform anymore into normal sand when falling.
* All entities are no longer the same color as the sky when the render distance is under 72 blocks.
* Glowstone and snow layers no longer randomly rotate the textures of certain surrounding blocks.
* Brown mushrooms do not glow anymore.
* Diorite, granite, and andesite now drop the correct resource type.
* Dark oak, acacia leaves, and trunks now catch fire.
* You can now place torches on mob spawners.
* The contents of mob spawners are saved now.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:v0.9.0 alpha build 2}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.9.0 build 2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 2]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.9.0 build 2]]
[[hu:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.9.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.9.0 build 2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.9.0.b2]]