{{Infobox version
|title=v0.11.0 alpha build 1
|edition=Pocket Edition
|image=Pocket Edition 0.11.0 build 1.png
|type=Build
|parent=v0.11.0 alpha
|date=April 9, 2015
|versioncode=720110001 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 21)<br>
740110001 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 21)<br>
780110001 (x86, 21)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build1-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build1-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build1-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.10.5 alpha
|next=v0.11.0 alpha build 2
|nextparent=v0.11.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.11.0 alpha build 1''' is the first build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha|v0.11.0]], and the first build released in 2015.

== Additions ==
=== General ===
* [[Skins]]
* [[Death messages]]
* Localization
* Text formatting codes
* Show server status and message of the day on server entries screen

=== Gameplay ===
* New World edit screen.
* Added mob effects:
** {{EffectSprite|Poison-revision-1}} [[Poison]]
*** Can be obtained by eating [[rotten flesh]] and [[pufferfish]], or being attacked by a [[cave spider]] on normal and hard difficulty.
** {{EffectSprite|Nausea-revision-1}} [[Nausea]].
*** Can only be obtained by eating [[Pufferfish]].
** {{EffectSprite|Hunger-revision-1}} [[Hunger]]
*** Can only be obtained by eating [[Raw Chicken]].
*** Does not affect the [[player]] yet.
* [[Fishing]].
* Change [[Gameplay#game modes|gamemode]].
* Lock/unlock day cycle.
* Rename worlds.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Make old worlds infinite.

=== Blocks ===
* [[Redstone Block]]
** Currently its only purpose is to store [[redstone dust]].
* [[Grass Path]] block
** Grass path blocks that are lower than normal [[grass block]]s (15/16th of a block).
** To create, tap a grass block with a [[shovel]].
** Replaces the [[gravel]] paths in [[village]]s.

=== Items ===
* [[Boat]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Emits smoke when destroyed.
** {{Version exclusive}}: Crafting recipe is 5 [[wood planks]] and a [[wooden shovel]].
*** Larger in size.
*** Color is dependent on the planks used.
*** Sprite color is always the same; it doesn't change based on actual boat color.
*** When in a boat, two buttons for steering appear. The right button steers to the left, the left button steers to the right. Pressing both buttons moves the boat forward.
*** Are more resistant to damage - when colliding with another block, the boat will not break.
*** Can support two riders, including passive and hostile mobs.
**** Passive and hostile mobs can ride in a boat without the player.
* [[Fishing Rod]]
* [[Rotten Flesh]]
* [[Fish]]
** [[Raw Cod]]
** [[Cooked Cod]]
** [[Raw Salmon]]
** [[Cooked Salmon]]
** [[Pufferfish]]
** [[Tropical Fish]]

=== Mobs ===
* [[Squid]]
** {{Version exclusive}}: Baby squid
** {{Version exclusive}}: Produces a black cloud of "ink" when attacked.
** {{Version exclusive}}: Spawn only in ocean biomes.
* [[Spider Jockey]]
* [[Cave Spider]]
** {{Version exclusive}}: Cave spider jockeys
* [[Bat]]
* Baby [[Zombie]]
** Baby zombies have a 5% chance of spawning as a chicken jockey. (In turn, zombies have a 0.2% chance of being a chicken jockey)
* [[Magma Cube]]
** Drop [[magma cream]]
** Can only be spawned from spawn eggs.
* [[Ghast]]
** Only available through spawn eggs.
*** Spawn egg can only be received through inventory editing.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
* Options
** Added a "hide" button to the chat screen
* [[Frame rate|Performance]]
** Improved multiplayer bandwidth usage
** Improved client/server communication
** Improved disconnection messages
*** Now includes the reason of the kick/ban.<ref>{{tweet|shoghicp|560055673678233600|New additions are always nice!|27 Jan 2015}}</ref>
** Improved text rendering
** Improved world loading
** Faster torch placing (less lag)
** Added shovels in creative mode
** Added server-side checks on games
** Non-fancy render mode now works properly
** Updated inventory icon from a Brick block to a chest
** Limited player names to PC allowed names﻿
** Changed texture for mob spawners

== Fixes ==

'''[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15310 40 bugs fixed]'''

* Fixed the block break feedback circle disappearing on suspend
* Fixed crashes while saving the world
* Fixed crashes on armor screen
* Fixed crashes on furnace screen
* Fixed world not being saved
* Fixed zombie pigman catching fire
* Fixed being unable to create a new world
* Fixed players getting stuck in the void after dying
* Fixed a hotbar duplication glitch
* Fixed the action button not being disabled after moving away
* Fixed grass/mycelium not growing below fences but underwater
* Fixed stone walls connecting to water
* Fixed cocoa tile not updating neighbor blocks when dropped
* Fixed breakable bedrock in survival.
* Fixed placing water replacing non-solid blocks
* Fixed wooden axe not burning on furnaces
* Fixed different planks no longer stacking
* Fixed updating neighbors and rendering on random change
* Fixed gravel falling near fences
* Fixed destroying Reactor-core not allowing the night to end
* Fixes disallowing changing name while playing
* Fixed quartz stairs not in stonecutter
* Fixed a duplicated player kick
* Fixed door duplication when placed near a cactus
* Fixed water not functioning properly on transparent blocks
* Fixed double plant blocks deleting existing blocks
* Fixed entities getting ticked twice when riding
* Fixed duplication of items while feeding wolves
* Fixed iron bars not connecting to glass panes
* Fixed fences connecting to fence gates sideways
* Fixed acacia and dark wood stairs not burning
* Fixed grass becoming dirt even if sapling can't grow
* Fixed carpets not dropping more than one when stacked.
* Fixed sand/gravel falling when placed on top of torches
* Fixed the topmost block having full bright lighting
* Fixed world crash when unknown blocks are present
* Fixed trees growing on the client
* Fixed desert wells and special biomes not generating
* Fixed issue with connecting to local games
* {{bug|MCPE-8118}} - Unequipped armor causes a crash when dying with the armor tab open</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.11.0 build 1]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 1]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.11.0 build 1]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.11.0 alpha build 1]]
[[zh:携带版0.11.0.b1]]