{{Infobox version
|title=
|image=Pocket Edition 1.0.0.1.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|date=December 7, 2016
|versioncode=841000001 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
842000001 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
871000001 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
872000001 (x86-jb, 22)
|parent=1.0.0
|prevparent=v0.16.2 alpha
|prev=alpha 1.0.0.0
|next=alpha 1.0.0.2
|nextparent=1.0.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Alpha 1.0.0.1''' (also known as '''1.0.0 build 4''') is the fourth build version released for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]], also known as the [[Ender Update]].<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/12/changelog-for-10-beta-build-4-aka-1001.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 1.0 beta build 4 (aka 1.0.0.1)|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref>

== Additions ==

=== Items ===
* [[Shulker shell]]s
** Aren't used for anything. They were added to allow players to collect them until a future update adds [[Shulker Box]]es.<ref>{{tweet|_tomcc|806804675223662593|And Shulkers now drop Shulker Shells that you can collect for when we add Shulker Boxes, thanks to the Reddit dude who suggested that!|8 Dec 2016}}</ref>

== Changes ==

=== General ===
* The game should start much quicker now and/or won't hang on a black screen (Android only).

=== Blocks ===
* [[Redstone dust]] again makes red particles instead of white particles when broken.
* Tweaked [[chorus fruit]] and [[chorus plant]] icons.
* [[Glass]] should appear correctly again.

=== Items ===
* [[Chorus fruit]] and [[ender pearl]]s now have cooldown animations.

=== Mobs ===
* Tweaked [[shulker]]s so natural armor is applied instead of [[absorption]].
* [[Silverfish]]'s spawning behavior tweaked so it matches other versions.
* [[Rabbit]]s no longer spawn exponentially in [[Biome#Snowy biomes|icy biomes]].
* [[Polar bear]]s don't sink into the [[snow]] as often anymore.
* [[Shulker]]s now drop [[shulker shell]]s.

=== Generated Structures ===
* Tweaked [[igloo]]s to use the correct [[ice]] blocks.

== Fixes ==

* Fixed [[redstone repeater]]s so they don't fire too quickly.
* Fixed an issue with [[piston]]s so they do not activate when adjacent to an unpowered block that is adjacent to a power source.
* [[Villager#Baby villagers|Baby villagers]] now appear as grownup [[villager]]s when they grow up.
* [[Player]]s no longer take damage due to lag when they move up or down.
* [[Stray]]s again have a 50% chance of dropping an [[Arrow#Tipped Arrows|Arrow of Slowness]] upon death.
* [[Painting]]s now work correctly and don't crash the game.
* [[Item]]s in the Pocket Edition [[Crafting#MATTIS or Pocket Edition Crafting System|crafting screen]] that don't have the ingredients in the [[inventory]] show up again.
* Fixed a crash when looking at the panorama after coming from the world template screen.
* Fixed an issue where a player could [[respawn]] on the corner of a [[block]] rather than the center.
* {{cmd|tp}} or {{cmd|teleport}} commands work again as expected.
* Fixed a bug where players would sometimes regain [[experience]] levels that they had before they died.
* Fixed a bug that caused the Store to get stuck on the loading screen (Kindle Fire only).
* [[Hopper]]s only pull in items from above them now.
* Items a player picks up will now not move items to the hotbar if it would combine in the player's inventory.
* Game no longer crashes if a player's [[World Spawn#Individual spawn|spawn]] position is at the top of the [[world]].
* Fixed the constant block highlight flickering again.
* [[Shulker#Shulker bullet|Shulker projectiles]] now emit sound when launched or exploding.
* Chorus plants and chorus fruit now have the correct sounds when placed and destroyed.
* [[Sword]]s enchanted with [[Looting]] no longer cause an invalid item to drop occasionally, which would crash the game when the item was picked up.
* Fixed a pack import case where a <code>.zip</code> contained a folder containing the pack.
* [[Endermen]] no longer teleport after death.
* [[Iron golem]]s no longer drown.
* Players removed from a [[Realms]] whitelist who are in the Realm world are now always kicked from the world.
* [[Tree]]s that grow to full size from [[sapling]]s are no longer invisible (Realms only).
* [[Arrow#Tipped Arrows|Arrows of Harming]] no longer bounce off of [[mob]]s.
* Fixed crashes that occurred when importing some texture packs.</onlyinclude>

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.0.1]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.0.1]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 1.0.0.1]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.0 build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 1.0.0.1]]
[[ru:1.0 build 4 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.0.0.1]]