{{Infobox version
|title=v1.1.0
|vernum=1.1
|build=366564
|image=PocketDiscovery.png
|image2=Pocket Edition 1.1.0.png
|name=[[Discovery Update]]<ref name=PocketDiscovery>{{Mcnet|discovery-update-pocket-and-win-10-soon|The Discovery Update: on Pocket and Windows 10 soon}}</ref>
|edition=Pocket Edition
|internal=1.1.0.55</br> '''Windows 10''' 1.1.55.0
|date=June 1, 2017
|prevparent=1.0.0
|prev=1.0.9
|next=1.1.1
|nextparent=1.2.0 |nextparentlink=Bedrock Edition 1.2.0
}}
{{relevant guide|Bedrock Edition guides/Discovery Update}}

'''1.1.0''', the first release of the '''[[Discovery Update]]''', was a major update to ''[[Pocket Edition]]'' and [[:Category:Bedrock_Edition|its derived editions]] that was released on June 1, 2017. It added many new features primarily focused on exploration (similar to [[Java Edition 1.11]]), such as [[woodland mansion]]s, [[adventure]] mode and [[explorer map]]s, and some features revolving around the color palette of the game (similar to [[Java Edition 1.12]]) such as [[concrete]] and [[glazed terracotta]]. Other new features included new [[mob]]s, such as [[llama]] and [[vex]]es, the [[Marketplace]], and a partially-implemented [[Inventory#slots|off-hand slot]]. 

The update was also the last major update to be released under the name ''Pocket Edition'' – afterwards, beginning with [[Bedrock Edition 1.2.0]] ([[Better Together Update]]), the name was revised to ''Minecraft'' (with no subtitle) due to the cross-compatibility gameplay between other devices introduced in that update.

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|White Bed BE
|White Concrete
|White Concrete Powder
|White Glazed Terracotta
|Light Gray Bed BE
|Light Gray Concrete
|Light Gray Concrete Powder
|Light Gray Glazed Terracotta
|Gray Bed BE
|Gray Concrete
|Gray Concrete Powder
|Gray Glazed Terracotta
|Black Bed BE
|Black Concrete
|Black Concrete Powder
|Black Glazed Terracotta
|Brown Bed BE
|Brown Concrete
|Brown Concrete Powder
|Brown Glazed Terracotta
|Red Concrete
|Red Concrete Powder
|Red Glazed Terracotta
|Orange Bed BE
|Orange Concrete
|Orange Concrete Powder
|Orange Glazed Terracotta
|Yellow Bed BE
|Yellow Concrete
|Yellow Concrete Powder
|Yellow Glazed Terracotta
|Lime Bed BE
|Lime Concrete
|Lime Concrete Powder
|Lime Glazed Terracotta
|Green Bed BE
|Green Concrete
|Green Concrete Powder
|Green Glazed Terracotta
|Cyan Bed BE
|Cyan Concrete
|Cyan Concrete Powder
|Cyan Glazed Terracotta
|Light Blue Bed BE
|Light Blue Concrete
|Light Blue Concrete Powder
|Light Blue Glazed Terracotta
|Blue Bed BE
|Blue Concrete
|Blue Concrete Powder
|Blue Glazed Terracotta
|Purple Bed BE
|Purple Concrete
|Purple Concrete Powder
|Purple Glazed Terracotta
|Magenta Bed BE
|Magenta Concrete
|Magenta Concrete Powder
|Magenta Glazed Terracotta
|Pink Bed BE
|Pink Concrete
|Pink Concrete Powder
|Pink Glazed Terracotta
|White Shulker Box
|Light Gray Shulker Box
|Gray Shulker Box
|Black Shulker Box
|Brown Shulker Box
|Red Shulker Box
|Orange Shulker Box
|Yellow Shulker Box
|Lime Shulker Box
|Green Shulker Box
|Cyan Shulker Box
|Light Blue Shulker Box
|Blue Shulker Box
|Purple Shulker Box
|Magenta Shulker Box
|Pink Shulker Box
|Frosted Ice
|Ocean Explorer Map BE
|Woodland Explorer Map BE
|Enchanted Book [&7Frost Walker I]
|Enchanted Book [&7Frost Walker II]
|Enchanted Book [&7Mending]
|Totem of Undying
|Iron Nugget
|Llama Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Vindicator Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Evoker Spawn Egg Revision 1
|Vex Spawn Egg Revision 1
}}

=== Blocks ===
'''Colored [[bed]]s'''
* Added 15 new beds, in addition to the existing red bed.
* Crafted using three of the respective wool colors along with three of any wood planks.
** This means that different colors of wool can no longer be used to craft the same bed. For example, using red, orange, and yellow wool to craft a bed is no longer possible; they must be the same color.
'''[[Concrete]]'''
* Comes in the 16 traditional [[dye]] colors.
* Created when [[concrete powder]] comes into contact with still or flowing water.

'''[[Concrete Powder]]'''
* Comes in the 16 traditional dye colors.
* Gravity affected (like [[sand]] and [[gravel]]).
* When it touches water, it turns into a concrete block.
* Craftable using 4 [[sand]], 4 [[gravel]] and one of any [[dye]] to get 8 concrete powder blocks; the recipe is shapeless.

'''[[Glazed Terracotta]]'''
* Comes in the 16 traditional dye colors.
* Smelt any stained terracotta in a furnace to obtain the glazed terracotta of that color (not for regular [[terracotta]]).
* Can be placed in 4 directions: north, south, west, and east.
** When placed down while facing the right directions, a repeating pattern can be created. For example, white terracotta will create the pattern of a sun when 4 are placed down correctly.
* Will not "[[stick]]" to [[slime block]]s if attached to the side, top or bottom, but will if attached to the front or back.

'''[[Shulker Box]]'''
* Crafted in a [[crafting table]] as a single column, with a [[chest]] in the middle of the row and a [[shulker shell]] both above and below the chest.
* Works similar to a chest but keeps its content when broken.
** If it has any content inside, it will drop itself in [[Creative]] mode as well.
** Cannot be placed inside another shulker box.
** When hovered over in the inventory, it will show up to 5 slots of its content.
** Breaks when being pushed by a piston.
* Use the same opening and closing animations as the Shulker.
* Can be placed on different sides of a block to open in different directions.
** When opening, its hitbox changes from 1 block to 1.5 blocks in its opening direction.
*** Because of this, it will not open if there is a block of any kind within the closest half-block area in its opening direction.
* Can be [[dye]]d in any of the available dye colors.
** Dyed shulker boxes have a slightly darker bottom part than the normal one.
* Dispensers will place the block on the ground.
* Can be mined with anything, but is mined faster with a [[pickaxe]].

'''[[Frosted Ice]]'''
* Created when using "Frost Walker" enchantment.
* Cannot be obtained in the inventory, neither with silk touch nor with commands. (Can be placed only via {{cmd|setblock}})
* Breaks after a few seconds when in sufficient light (including daylight).
** Breaking takes place in four breaking stages (blockstates: <code>age:0, age:1, age:2, age:3</code>). Still decay with <code>randomTickSpeed</code> set to 0, but a higher number will make them decay faster.

=== Items ===
'''[[Explorer map]]s'''
* Can only be obtained from cartographer villagers.
* Used to locate [[ocean monument]]s and the new [[woodland mansion]]s.
** Ocean explorer maps are slightly blue, while woodland explorer maps are slightly brown.
* Works like a map, but shows the outlines of land and a single structure icon.
** Fills in the map with blocks once the [[player]] starts exploring the area shown.
* When resized, it will still show the structure icon, but will lose the outlines.
* When outside the area on the map, the player icon will be smaller the further away the player is.
** When 1024 blocks away from the structure, the dot will go from a small icon to a bigger one.

'''[[Totem of Undying]]'''
* [[Evoker]]s will always drop one of these upon death.
* Holding it in either hand will resurrect the [[player]] upon taking lethal damage.
** Gives the player the [[Absorption]] and [[Regeneration]] effects when activated.
** Does not prevent death by {{cmd|kill}} or [[the Void]].
** Has an animation when activated, which uses the item's texture and model.

'''[[Iron Nugget]]s'''
* Can be crafted from [[iron ingot]]s, but are also received from smelting iron tools and armor.
* Can be crafted into iron ingots.

'''[[Spawn egg]]s'''
* [[Llama]]
* [[Vindicator]]
* [[Evoker]]
* [[Vex]]

=== Mobs ===
'''[[Llama]]s'''
* Spawn in extreme hills.
* Drop [[leather]] and {{xp|1|3}} experience orbs when killed.
* Has multiple skins, like [[cat]]s and [[horse]]s.
* Attack by spitting.
** If the [[player]] hits them, they will spit at the player once, dealing {{Health|1}} damage.
** If not in a caravan group, they are always aggressive toward [[wolves]].
* Can be equipped with a carpet for decoration and a chest for storage.
** Differently colored carpets have different textures when placed on llamas.
** The amount of storage slots available depends on the strength of the llama.
* If the player puts a leash on one, up to 10 llamas will be attracted and try to form a caravan.
** Caravan groups are passive to all mobs.
* Tamed llamas can be bred with hay bales.

'''[[Illager]]s '''
* Being relatives to the [[villager]]s, they look similar but have pale gray skin and wear dark clothes.
* Two kinds of illagers are introduced: [[evoker]]s and [[vindicator]]s.
* Attack any villagers, players, and [[iron golem]]s in sight.

'''[[Vindicator]]s'''
* Separate their arms when aggravated, and holds an [[iron axe]] in their main hand.
* Hostile towards [[player]]s and [[villager]]s.
* Have a byte tag <code>Johnny</code> which is false by default; if set to true, they will attack any nearby mobs, with the exception of other illagers.
* Spawn in the [[woodland mansion]]s upon generation. Upon being killed, they will never respawn.
* May drop [[emeralds]] and an [[iron axe]] upon death.

'''[[Evoker]]s'''
* Added as an end-game challenge, or mini-boss.
* Will always drop a [[totem of undying]] upon death. May drop [[emerald]]s too.
* In battle, they will summon [[vex]]es and [[Evoker#Evoker Fangs|fangs]] to attack.
** Raise their arms when casting a spell.
** Fangs always deal {{Health|6}} damage, ignoring armor.
* Aggressive towards any players, iron golems, and villagers in sight.
* Spawn in the two upper floors of woodland mansions upon generation. Like vindicators, they will never respawn once killed.
* Will change any blue colored sheep in a radius of 16 blocks into red.

'''[[Vex]]es'''
* Spawn only when summoned by an [[evoker]].
* Are like ghosts, in that they are small, pale, flying mobs that can phase through blocks.
* Turn red when about to attack.
* Attack any players, iron golems, and villagers in sight.
* Hold an [[iron sword]] in their main hand.

'''Cartographer [[villager]]s'''
* Added as a new librarian career.
** Trading with a cartographer is the only way to obtain the new [[explorer map]]s.

=== Non-mob entities ===
'''[[Evocation fang]]s'''
* Summoned by [[evoker]]s during their fang attack.
* Fangs in warmup still have a visible [[Debug screen#More debug-keys|debug hitbox]].
* Damages {{hp|6}} deals to mobs that were in place.
* Naturally spawned fangs do not harm illagers.
** Player-spawned ones do.
=== World generation ===
'''[[Woodland mansion]]s'''
* Generate in [[roofed forest]] biomes.
* Home to the [[illager]]s.
* Have three floors, where the bottom two are larger and the third is smaller.
* Use procedural generation and [[structure block]]s for random layouts.
** Because of this, some rooms may be completely surrounded by walls and have no entrance.
* Consist mostly of [[cobblestone]] and [[wood]] blocks.
* Can be located with a [[woodland explorer map]]s.

=== Gameplay ===
'''[[Inventory#Slots|Off-hand slot]]'''
* Off-hand slot only works with [[arrow]]s and [[totems of undying]].
** [[Bow]]s choose their arrow type based on the offhand.
** [[Arrow]]s in the offhand take priority over arrows in any other slot.
** If there are multiple arrow types and none in the offhand or selected hotbar slot, the arrow that is in the lowest numbered slot will get fired.

'''[[Enchantment]]s'''
* [[Frost Walker]]
* Turns water into meltable ice which decays in multiple stages.
** Does not work on flowing water.

* [[Mending]]
* Any experience collected while holding the item repairs it instead of going to the experience bar.
* Mainhand, offhand, and armor slots all count as held.
* If multiple held items have the enchantment, one will be chosen at random for each experience orb collected.
* Repairs at a rate of 2 durability per experience.
* If the amount of repair needed is less than the value of the experience orb, the extra experience will go to the experience bar.

'''[[Adventure]] mode'''
* Only playable using commands.
* Building, destroying blocks, setting things on fire and using buckets is disabled.
* Players can only interact with mobs and the environment, such as buttons and levers.
* Players can take items from a [[chest]], a [[furnace]] or a [[dispenser]].

=== General ===
* Added a setting to toggle smooth lighting.
* {{Version exclusive}}: [[Marketplace]]
* Added a setting to change the screen safe area.
* Added 13 new languages: Čeština (Czech), Dansk (Danish), Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian), Magyar (Hungarian), Norsk bokmål (Norwegian), Polski (Polish), Slovenčina (Slovak), Suomi (Finnish), Svenska (Swedish), Türkçe (Turkish), Ελληνικά (Greek), Български (Bulgarian), and Українська (Ukrainian).

== Changes ==

=== Blocks ===
* [[Bed]]s
** Makes more realistic sounds when placed, stepped on and broken.
*** Old sound was stone.
** The original "Bed" has been renamed to "Red Bed".
** Gives a short bounce when jumped on.
* [[Carpet]]
** Texture and color palette is changed.
* [[Cobweb]]
** {{Version exclusive}}: A cobweb can be converted to 9 strings on a crafting table.
* [[Door]]
** Now actually make sounds when placed.
* [[Hardened clay]]
** The uncolored block is now called "[[Terracotta]]".
** The colored blocks are now called, for instance, "Red Terracotta".
* [[Melon block]]
** {{Version exclusive}}: Breaking a melon with shears will produce the full 9 slices of melon.
* [[Wool]]
** Texture and color palette is changed.

=== Items ===

* [[Map]]s
** Maps are now numbered, so that the player can tell which map is which.
** {{Version exclusive}}: [[Empty map]]s with compasses have been renamed to locator maps to distinguish between empty maps without compasses.
* [[Golden apple]]
** {{Version exclusive}}: "[[Enchanted Golden Apple]]" is now called "[[Enchanted Apple]]".
* [[Spawn egg]]s
** Updated [[spawn egg]] texture for husk, shulker, silverfish, stray and zombie horse.
* Potion of Decay
** Texture has been changed.

=== Entities ===

* [[Cave spider]]
** Now attacks with poison time based on [[difficulty]].
* [[Lead]]
** Improved [[lead]] rope physics.
* [[Zombie villager]]
** Now have the unique sounds that they do {{in|je}}.
* [[Shulker]]
** Changed color palette.
* [[Sheep]]
** Changed color palette.

=== World generation ===

* Seeds which contain pre-generated structures such as [[ocean monument]]s & [[igloo]]s may generate those structures in different places.
* {{Version exclusive}}: Igloo [[bed]]s are white in ice spikes and brown in cold taiga.

=== Gameplay ===
* [[Health]] and [[Hunger]] bar are now located above the hotbar.

=== General ===
*Entity and block entity IDs
** Use underscores to separate words, rather than using single words in mixed case.
*** The following names have changed:
{| class="wikitable sortable" data-description="changed names"
! class="unsortable" |
! Old name
! New name
! Change
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Arrow}}
| <code>arrow.skeleton</code>
| <code>arrow</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Cave Spider}}
| <code>cavespider</code>
| <code>cave_spider</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Minecart with Chest}}
| <code>minecartchest</code>
| <code>chest_minecart</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Minecart with Command Block}}
| <code>minecartcommandblock</code>
| <code>command_block_minecart</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Egg}}
| <code>thrownegg</code>
| <code>egg</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Elder Guardian}}
| <code>guardian.elder</code>
| <code>elder_guardian</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Ender Dragon}}
| <code>dragon</code>
| <code>ender_dragon</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Sand}}
| <code>fallingblock</code>
| <code>falling_block</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Fishing Bobber}}
| <code>fishinghook</code>
| <code>fishing_hook</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Minecart with Hopper}}
| <code>minecarthopper</code>
| <code>hopper_minecart</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Iron Golem}}
| <code>irongolem</code>
| <code>iron_golem</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Fireball}}
| <code>largefireball</code>
| <code>large_fireball</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Leash Knot}}
| <code>leashknot</code>
| <code>leash_knot</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Lightning}}
| <code>lightningbolt</code>
| <code>lightning_bolt</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Magma Cube}}
| <code>lavaslime</code>
| <code>magma_cube</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Mooshroom}}
| <code>mushroomcow</code>
| <code>mooshroom</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Polar Bear}}
| <code>polarbear</code>
| <code>polar_bear</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Skeleton Horse}}
| <code>skeletonhorse</code>
| <code>skeleton_horse</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Fireball}}
| <code>smallfireball</code>
| <code>small_fireball</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Snow Golem}}
| <code>snowgolem</code>
| <code>snow_golem</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Splash Potion}}
| <code>thrownpotion</code>
| <code>splash_potion</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Stray}}
| <code>skeleton.stray</code>
| <code>stray</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|TNT}}
| <code>primedtnt</code>
| <code>tnt</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Minecart with TNT}}
| <code>minecarttnt</code>
| <code>tnt_minecart</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Wither}}
| <code>wither.boss</code>
| <code>wither</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Wither Skeleton}}
| <code>skeleton.wither</code>
| <code>wither_skeleton</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Bottle o' Enchanting}}
| <code>potion.experience</code>
| <code>xp_bottle</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|experience-orb}}
| <code>xporb</code>
| <code>xp_orb</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Zombie Horse}}
| <code>zombiehorse</code>
| <code>zombie_horse</code>
| {{tc|neutral|underscores}}
|-
| {{EntitySprite|Zombie Pigman}}
| <code>pigzombie</code>
| <code>zombie_pigman</code>
| {{tc|rarely|rename}}
|}

=== Commands ===

* <code>CanPlaceOn</code> & <code>CanDestroy</code> are now supported in the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command.
* {{cmd|gamerule}}
** New game rules: <code>dodaylightcycle</code>, <code>doentitydrops</code>, <code>dofiretick</code>, <code>domobspawning</code>, <code>domobloot</code>, <code>dotiledrops</code>, <code>doweathercycle</code>, <code>keepinventory</code> and <code>mobgriefing</code>.
* {{cmd|locate}} command will now find more structures such as [[Village]]s
{{cmd|setmaxplayers}}
* This command can set the maximum amount of players in a game session.

=== Other ===

* Iron and gold [[tools]] can now be smelted into [[iron nugget]]s and [[gold nugget]]s.
* Dampened the vertical look speed when using a controller.
* Improved navigation of the settings screen when using a controller.
* The {{xbtn|X}} button can now be used to clear the hotbar on the Creative inventory screen when using a controller.
* Improved controller input when selecting items on the Creative inventory screen.
* {{Version exclusive}}: New sleeping animation slowly lowers the player into a serene slumber.
* Worlds will now show a screenshot in the main menu.
* Eating animation can now be seen in third-person camera.
* Added a warning if a resource pack cannot find the textures list file.
* Added a message when toggling Always Day button in the world settings.
* "EnchantRandomly" function has been modified to use treasure flags.
* The "crafting" label above the 2×2 grid in the player inventory was removed because the sizing didn't work in non-English languages.
* Font fixes.
* Updated the beacon recipe to not use a specified aux value and instead use the default.
* Tweaked some weird touch issues with the hotbar.

== Fixes ==

* {{bug|MCPE-12196}} - Water no longer renders and unloads oddly behind clouds
* Fixed a crash when importing certain resource packs.
* Fixed a crash when trying to join a server with plug-ins.
* Players can now see [[particles]] after other players fall from over three blocks high.
* {{bug|MCPE-19414}} - Leads no longer float above rabbits' heads.
* Fixed special characters on signs being visible through walls.
* Horses now make sounds when they jump.
* Fixed pressure plates and other Redstone items staying pressed when the player leaves the chunks.
* Fixed redstone that is placed below and beside a piston appear to connect to the [[piston]].
* Fixed [[hopper]]s not pulling items from above if all slots were occupied.
* The host and other players no longer get disconnected from the game session when the host minimizes the game (iOS only).
* {{bug|MCPE-8332}} - Finally fixed the bug with MCPE not starting on some Android devices.
* {{bug|MCPE-14019}} - Items shot from [[dropper]]s and dispensers can now be picked up quickly
* Players can no longer place top slabs under them while standing on a bottom slab, preventing falling.
* Fixed [[lava]] flowing too far in the Nether.
* Shulkers will teleport away when placed on top of a piston.
* Shulkers will no longer drop experience orbs after being killed using the {{cmd|kill}} command.
* Fixed shulkers that are spawned with a dispenser under a top slab.
* Mobs can now see players through non-solid blocks; this means mobs can now see players in blocks such as [[sugar cane]].
* Fixed some shading/shadow issues with some Android devices.
* Fixed mob spawning so it is now modified by the number of players in the game and where they are located in proximity to other players.
* Fixed some issues with hit detections against entities.
* [[Player]]s can now use whisper-like commands ({{cmd|tell}}, {{cmd|w}}, {{cmd|msg}}) on other dead players.
* Maps can again be zoomed out in the crafting table.
* Green arrows no longer appear on all framed maps.
* Green arrows are no longer left on the map after it is removed from an item frame.
* {{bug|MCPE-19993}} - Splash/lingering [[potion]]s can now go into brewing stands from a hopper.
* Creepers no longer sometimes get stuck inflating when a player hits it & then moves back.
* End rods will now be grayed out in the Pocket UI crafting table if the player is lacking the necessary ingredients.
* {{cmd|stopsound}} & {{cmd|playsound}} now name all players affected by those commands.
* Fixed an issue when attempting to activate "Wheel Turning" in VR options (VR only).
* Pressing the tab key now finishes the typed command properly (Rift only).
* {{bug|MCPE-12281}} - Renamed blocks/containers now have their names changed in menus/inventory.
* Fixed some crashes when importing [[Add-ons]].
* Smite enchantment now affects all undead mobs.
* Mobs that are lifted up by shulker projectiles will now be shown lifting up properly.
* Breaking a [[shulker]] projectile will now show the effect.
* Starting a sign message with §§ will no longer make the text invisible.
* {{bug|MCPE-19299}} - [[Elytra]] will now lose durability in Survival multiplayer games.
* {{bug|MCPE-18872}} - Mooshrooms will now respawn on mushroom islands.
* [[Experience orb]]s no longer splash when they fall in water.
* Having one spawn egg for hostile mobs in Creative mode on Peaceful difficulty will no longer consume the egg.
* Crops will no longer yield a fixed amount after harvesting.
* Click {{key|MMB}} on a [[flower pot]] containing a flower will now select the flower.
* Adjusted the color of several blocks on maps.
* Maps created in [[the Nether]] will now show red and gray patterns, not just gray.
* Shulkers will no longer immediately attack when a player leaves cover.
* Trees and giant mushrooms will no longer be missing blocks when spawned on the edge of a chunk.
* The wither will now play sound during its spawning animation.
* {{bug|MCPE-20357}} - {{cmd|clear}} command now removes equipped armor.
* No more "crazy mouse"; sensitivity should be correct now.
* {{bug|MCPE-19004}} - Ender dragon's ender charge attack now has correct sound
* Cracking animation & particles now display correctly in multiplayer.
* Fixed a start-up crash on some Android devices.
* Player markers on a map no longer turn black and are left on the map after another player disconnects.
* The player will no longer lose all their text to the right if they move their text cursor to the middle of the text box and press enter.
* {{bug|MCPE-14022}} - Covering a roof of a spawn chamber with half-[[slabs]] no longer severely reduces the mob spawn rate.
* Items can again be pushed under an upper half-slab.
* Virtual keyboard is now available in single player (Gear VR only).
* Fixed a crash when feeding adult animals to breed them with only one food item in a stack.
* Feeding a tamed [[wolf]] will now restore the correct amount of health, depending on the type of meat used.
* Dates of save games are now the proper format of "day/month/year" for Dutch [[language]] settings.
* [[Polar bear]]s no longer deal damage on [[Peaceful]] difficulty.
* Donkeys and mules can no longer be tempted with food until they are tamed.
* Lava buckets that are in a furnace's fuel slot will no longer turn into a water bucket when a wet sponge has finished drying.
* Players no longer suffocate when the <code>drowingdamage</code> gamerule is disabled.
* Various mobs inside monster spawners will no longer be huge.
* Fixed texture issues on anvils.
* Fixed a graphical glitch when sand is falling.
* FoV will now increase while sprinting and flying when FoV is set to max setting.
* Fixed large oak trees spawning with birch wood.
* [[Iron golem]]s will no longer attack players after they are killed by the iron golem.
* Particles now appear behind arrows when seeing another player shoot arrows.
* Shearing a [[mooshroom]] that is attached to a lead will no longer remove the lead.
* Chicken jockeys will now walk with the speed of a baby zombie.
* Mobs spinning in a monster spawner will no longer stutter.
* [[Blaze]]s will now stop burning after they stop targeting a player.
* Blazes now perform melee attacks with the right damage.
* [[Skeleton horse]]s and [[zombie horse]]s now drop the proper amount of [[bone]]s or [[rotten flesh]].
* The panoramic image view for mash-up packs in the store can now be scrolled using a controller.
* Farmland and crops are now destroyed when players jump on them.
* Fixed the vignette at the edges of the screen in [[the End]].
* Items thrown by players no longer carry the player's momentum.
* Conditional/Unconditional setting for Command Blocks will now copy when using {{key|Ctrl}}+{{key|MMB}}.
* Fixed textures on the bottom of lead knots.
* {{bug|MCPE-19849}} - Fixed the height view distance when Beautiful Skies is enabled.
* High-jumping horses will no longer take damage when they jump and land from the same height.
* Mobs can no longer spawn on top of slabs.
* Fixed a crash when interacting with skulls.
* Mobs from the overworld will no longer spawn in the End
* {{bug|MCPE-19633}} - Fixed falling blocks breaking and duplicating when falling onto [[piston]]s.
* Armor Items are now equipped to mobs when dispensed.
* Several Redstone components like buttons and levers can be now placed on top of fences and walls.
* Color gradients of [[grass block]]s no longer appear as large-square patterns.
* {{bug|MCPE-19575}} - Rails can no longer be duplicated using sticky pistons.
* {{bug|MCPE-20315}} - Fixed resource packs failing to import if there are colors in the name of the pack.
* {{bug|MCPE-11279}} {{bug|MCPE-10077}} {{bug|MCPE-10079}} {{bug|MCPE-11555}} {{bug|MCPE-16940}} - Fixed sounds with a variety of items.
* Rain will no longer fill [[cauldron]]s with the last potion it was filled with
* {{bug|MCPE-17582}} - Boats can now be broken when occupied by a horse.
* [[Skull]]s will no longer be invisible when spawned with the {{cmd|fill}} command.
* Using the {{cmd|time query}} command now returns more descriptive messages.
* Fixed the consistency of death messages for all players when falling into the void.
* The progress of brewing stands will now copy when using {{key|Ctrl}}+{{key|MMB}}.
* Executing an unfinished command now updates the chat with 'invalid command syntax' message.
* Items can now be enchanted with the Unbreaking effect using the {{cmd|enchant}} command.
* An error message now appears when using the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command with non-existent slot number or exceeds an item stack's boundaries.
* Only the appropriate armor can be placed in each armor slot using the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command.
* [[Horses]] can no longer be equipped with any item in the saddle slot by using the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command.
* The correct error message is now shown for import failures of a non-ZIP Add-On files.
* Sugar cane can once again be planted on [[podzol]] blocks.
* The [[elder guardian]]'s special attack to inflict mining fatigue will now play sound.
* Baby zombies, baby zombie villagers, baby zombie pigmen, and endermites will now attack players standing in fence corners.
* Fixed [[zombie villager]] transformation rate depending on difficulty.
* Saplings that grow into trees will no longer replace other blocks with leaves
* The [[wither]]'s shield will now block all projectiles.
* Fixed recipes containing [[charcoal]] that could not be selected in the Pocket UI when using a controller and coal was also in the player's inventory.
* When using the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command, all chat messages after the command is executed will display the proper item name.
* Ice and packed ice are now properly destroyed in Creative mode.
* {{bug|MCPE-18471}} - Beacon beams now appear through clouds.
* Mobs will no longer get stuck and spin around on top of chests
* {{bug|MCPE-20460}} - Using the {{cmd|give}} command with a damage value will now give the item the right durability.
* The error message for too much power used in the {{cmd|effect}} command now shows the amount of power, not time.
* Fixed items received from the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command, when executed after {{cmd|clear}}, not being visible until the inventory was opened.
* The jump button will no longer disappear from the touch pad when pressing Fly Up and Fly Down buttons.
* Fixed the throwing rate of snowballs to be consistent with the host of a game session.
* [[Command block]]s will now show all lines in the Previous Output field.
* Fixed players having no sound when joining an Xbox Live game.
* Villagers really no longer walk away while trading and also fixed the [[trading]] screen closing.
* {{bug|MCPE-11727}} - Mobs can again walk on [[bed]]s & [[brewing stand]]s without spinning around or getting stuck.
* Fixed a crash that happened when loading older worlds.
* {{bug|MCPE-20490}} - Villagers can now pick up more than a single stack of an item.
* {{bug|MCPE-21028}} - Players can mine/destroy paintings again.
* {{bug|MCPE-18027}} - The wither is now one of the paintings the player can get.
* Mooshroom files in the vanilla behavior pack are now named consistently & uses the correct loot table file when not sheared.
* Fixed a crash that happened when a player tried to rejoin a Realm or world after previously cancelling joining the Realm/world.
* Fixed a crash that happened when a mob effect that doesn't exist is applied to a melee attack.
* The owner of a Realm can now join their own Realm even if it is already full and there are other players trying to join it.
* Double [[trapped chest]]s are again being highlighted when aimed at with the cursor regardless of which half the cursor rests.
* [[Glass bottle]]s in brewing stands no longer become invisible after opening & closing the stand UI.
* Players no longer spawn on the bedrock roof of [[the Nether]].
* If the player is flying and disconnects from a world/Realm, when they rejoin they will still be flying now.
* All multi-colored blocks are now placed in the order of the color palette in the Creative inventory.
* Players are no longer asked to download a behavior pack when joining a game with one enabled.
* {{bug|MCPE-20369}} Health & hunger bar textures fixed - no longer bugged when using a texture/resource pack.
* Fixed a crash when returning from the Nether for the first time.
* Fixed damage from multiple sources (so players no longer get contradictory screens)
* The player can again move the scroll bar properly when an item in the Storage manager is expanded.
* [[Add-on]]s are now flagged both at a child & parent level when a dependency chain is broken.
* The game again saves the player's [[language]] settings if they close the title.
* Fixed [[sign]]s so text again appears on the UI as it does on the sign.
* Closing the [[inventory]] menu with the three-dot button no longer causes the inventory bar to disappear.
* Horses no longer shake their heads back and forth as they walk.
* {{bug|MCPE-20875}} - [[Magma cube]]s are no longer missing their jumping animations.
* {{bug|MCPE-20239}} - [[Witch]]es are no longer immune to poison damage.
* If a player still has the Invisibility status effect, they no longer become visible if they leave and then re-enter a game/Realm.
* {{bug|MCPE-20777}} - Default Creative mode items no longer reappear in the player's inventory if it's empty after they re-enter a [[world]].
* The game/camera no longer shakes violently when applying the nausea effect to a player.
* {{bug|MCPE-20554}} - The [[nether portal]] overlay no longer appears briefly when using the {{cmd|clear effect}} command after the Nausea effect.
* {{bug|MCPE-19168}} - Mobs again drop cooked food if killed by an arrow from a bow with the [[Flame]] enchantment.
* {{bug|MCPE-19631}} - Arrows of Healing deal additional damage to undead [[mob]]s and no longer bounce.
* [[Achievement]] description text now appears in one color.
* {{bug|MCPE-20907}} - [[Villages]]s are fully generating again.
* Fixed assorted crashes.
* Fixed a crash when taking a screenshot when leaving the world on older Android devices.
* Storage manager confirmation pop-up now scrolls when localized text is longer than the box.
* Fixed a memory leak issue when loading into a world with Add-ons. (iOS only)
* Players no longer receive [[fall damage]] when jumping on slime blocks attached to [[piston]]s that are extending & retracting.
* No more flickering item counts on the hotbar.
* Items on the hotbar no longer change content by themselves.
* The hotbar no longer appears incorrectly after filling/emptying a bucket/bottle from a [[cauldron]].
* The difficulty in the in-game settings screen works correctly again.
* The <code>hideparticles</code> argument in the {{cmd|effect}} command now hides/shows [[particles]] correctly.
* Switching a player's [[gamemode]] now informs the player that they have had their gamemode switched.
* Loading an [[end city]] and then reducing the render distance setting no longer causes [[shulker]]s to despawn.
* Smoke particles that appear after a player's death are now the correct animation length.
* Slash command autocomplete feature again works in multiplayer games.
* Fixed several skins on the Festive Mash-up pack that appeared corrupted.
* After a world with a resource pack is uploaded to a Realm, the resource pack is again displayed.
* Pressing the play button in the Edit World screen after applying Resource or Behavior packs to a previously vanilla world no longer closes the Edit World screen & returns to World Select instead of loading the game.
* Fixed the screen getting cut-off on smaller screens for the Redstone Mansion store description
* Exiting the crafting grid will not drop items on the ground unless the inventory is full.
* {{bug|MCPE-19876}} - Mobs no longer get stuck in corners of [[fence]]s.
* Slimes & Magma Cubes again have the correct movement.
* {{bug|MCPE-20461}} - The {{cmd|say}} command in command blocks no longer gives an incorrect message.
* [[Ender dragon]] movement is no longer really jittery when in flight.
* All mobs should now be affected by the speed effect.
* Name auto-complete in [[commands]] works again.
* "Diamonds to You!" [[achievement]] again unlocks in multiplayer.
* [[Resource Pack]] purchase screen download progress bars now appear after purchasing DLC.
* {{bug|MCPE-19019}} - [[Anvil]]s no longer drop as items when they fall on torches - and they stack now, too.
* Cave spider [[spawner]]s now generate more often in mineshafts.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when [[chest]]s and [[cauldron]]s collided with each other.
* [[Arrow]]s no longer stutter when fired while riding an animal.
* Template worlds will once again appear on the create world screen.
* Rideable mobs can only be ridden when equipped with a [[saddle]].
* Particles traveling from [[bookshelves]] to [[enchantment table]]s will now travel over blocks.
* Fixed a crash when attempting to type more than four lines on a [[sign]].
* The ''Boost'' button is now visible when riding a Pig with [[carrot on a stick]] in hand.{{only|pe}}
* Chest on [[donkey]]/[[mule]] can now be accessed with a controller in Pocket UI.
* Fixed texture orientation on [[command block]]s.
* Fixed ''Broadcast to LAN'' not toggling off.
* Horses' heads no longer clip through player's face when moving up single blocks.
* [[Redstone torch]]es now have sound when burning out.
* The on-screen chat keyboard can now be re-opened.
* [[Repeater]]s now properly handle delay-based pulse generation.
* Pressing {{key|Enter}} on the keyboard will now move to the next line when making a sign (Android only).
* Fixed a crash when trying to open a chest that was pushed or pulled by a sticky.
* Fixed texture colors of fences and [[fence gate]]s.
* {{bug|MCPE-20746}} - Fixed 0xfe RakNet wrapper packet compression.
* Fixed a crash when standing in an [[end portal]] as it is completed.
* {{bug|MCPE-5406}} - [[Lava]] will no longer flow towards drops it cannot reach.
* {{bug|MCPE-1982}} - Once again have fixed mobs going out of fences when reloading a world.
* Fixed the ''Leave Boat'' button being missing from the screen.
* Minecarts will no longer jump off downward-sloping [[rail]]s.
* Milk buckets will no longer disappear from a full hotbar after milking a [[cow]].
* {{bug|MCPE-21142}} - The player can again craft [[dispenser]]s using the Pocket UI.
* [[Ender crystal]] explosion is now data driven for added world security.
* Copying a block now places the copied block in the empty item slot when holding an item in hand and having an empty slot in the [[hotbar]].
* Fixed a crash when clicking on the ''Sign in for Free'' button while trying to download game [[music]].
* Download of Redstone Mansion now updates the action button properly.
* Panoramas now load properly.
* All players can now ride mounts when it is on a [[lead]], not just the owners.
* {{cmd|locate village}} command now returns coordinates of the nearest village.
* All [[Resource pack]]s should now be displayed in the Global Resource list, both in the settings menu and create world menu.
* Players are again able to push mobs into [[minecart]]s & [[boat]]s.
* {{bug|MCPE-19535}} - [[Blaze]]s should no longer be able to one-hit kill players with a small fireball.
* {{bug|MCPE-19361}} - {{cmd|fill}} command changes should now be saved.
* Text in buttons in the [[Realms]] update screen should now be properly aligned.
* Fixed smoke/water particles flying off at crazy speeds.
* Hostile creatures can again hit with melee attacks against mounted players.
* Fixed a crash when downloading texture packs from the Global Resources or Resource Packs tab.
* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to access XBL.
* Hitting an [[enderman]] with a potion of invisibility no longer also makes the block it is holding disappear.
* The provoke range of endermen is no longer too short.
* [[Endermite]]s no longer occasionally spin around for a few seconds when not chasing a target.
* It no longer takes an unreasonable amount of time to break [[cobblestone wall]]s.
* Snowballs now generate particles when they break.
* Dead bushes again catch fire and eventually disappear.
* "This bed is occupied" message now only appears for the player trying to get in the occupied [[bed]], not the player currently using it.
* Villagers no longer prioritize harvesting crops over sharing food with hungry villagers.
* [[Zombie]]s and [[skeleton horse]]s no longer die unexpectedly.
* Tipped Arrow of Decay now has the correct texture.
* Ender pearls now show the correct particles when breaking.
* [[Blaze rod]]s are now shown correctly when held in 3rd person view.
* Removed an extra white pixel in the [[peony]] texture file.
* Gameplay sounds again load on the main menu.
* [[Elytra]] has sounds again.
* "Beam Me Up" achievement works again.
* The frequency of enchanted books has increased to account for the new enchantments.
* Using bone meal on a fully grown crop doesn't consume the bone meal anymore.
* Fire ticks properly now- it spreads & extinguishes in an appropriate amount of time.
* Reduced the size of the hitbox on arrows.
* Villagers now use the correct recipe to craft [[bread]] and consume wheat.
* Villager trading window no longer closes immediately on the first attempt at a trade.
* Draw distance range is no longer too high on low memory devices.
* Fixed arrows under water from constantly spewing bubbles.
* Fixed projectiles never reporting that they were on the ground.
* Fixed text on signs appearing too high.
* Fixed white wool/white carpet appearing just as "[[wool]]" and "[[carpet]]".
* Fixed a crash that happened when a player fell in the [[void]].
* Mobs now play their special footstep sounds if they have any.
* The profile changes the player's name to the default if they leave the name blank.
* Fixed a crash if they player's [[language]] is German & they use a hyphen.
* Texture packs should no longer randomly decide not to work or show corrupted textures anymore.
* Players in multiplayer can now see offhand items of other players.
* Chests can now be opened if an entity stands in the same block.
* Infinity bows no longer take arrows from the offhand slot.
* [[Shulker]] boxes now open under top-half slab blocks.
* Horse, mules, and donkeys now take damage from cacti while mounted.
* Shulkers now get damaged when they teleport out of fire and lava.
* Zombies suffocate again.
* [[Spawn egg]]s renamed in an [[anvil]] now respect special names when spawning mobs.
* Players can again shoot at a mob less than 5 blocks away.
* The player can now shoot themselves with a bow and arrow.
** And can also splash themselves with potions.
* Players no longer [[suffocate]] while riding horses underneath blocks that aren't actually suffocating the player.
* Fixed a few bugs regarding horses suffocating and taking [[damage]] when they shouldn't be doing either.
* The player can again exit the Exit World menu with the {{key|esc}} key.

== Videos ==
{{slicedlime|jGMJ7BdtPkY}}

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[cs:Pocket Edition 1.1]]
[[de:Pocket Edition 1.1.0]]
[[es:Pocket Edition 1.1.0]]
[[fr:Version portable 1.1.0]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket 1.1.0]]
[[ru:1.1.0 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.1.0]]