{{Infobox version
|title=v0.9.0 alpha build 5
|edition=Pocket Edition
|image=Pocket Edition 0.9.0 build 5.png
|type=Build
|parent=v0.9.0 alpha
|date=June 18, 2014
|versioncode=300900004 (armeabi-v7a-gb)<br>
500900004 (armeabi-v7a-hc)<br>
700900004 (x86)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build5-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build5-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.9.0-build5-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.8.2 alpha
|prev=v0.9.0 alpha build 4
|next=v0.9.0 alpha build 6
|nextparent=v0.9.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.9.0 alpha build 5''' is the fifth build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha|v0.9.0]].

== Changes ==
* Loading textures in the background to avoid hiccups at runtime.
* [[Tall grass]] is not flammable anymore.
* Added a recipe for [[emerald]]s.
* Compiled LevelDB with more optimizations.
* Somewhat faster [[torch]] placing.
* Improved (again) block breaking [[particle]]s.
* Optimized rendering of [[particle]]s.
* [[Superflat|Flat worlds]] can now be customized by editing the [[options.txt]] file.<ref>{{tweet|tomcc|479177777103769600|Hey modders, what about sand flatworlds? Hint- this is a thing in the next build: 'game_flatworldlayers:[7, 12,12,12&#93;'|18 Jun 2014}}</ref>

== Fixes ==
'''9 bugs fixed'''
* Fixed multiplayer.
* Fixed a crash in explosion.
* The sky doesn't become dark anymore when swimming/exploring shallow caves.
* Fixed [[water]] not creating [[obsidian]] when generated with the world.
* Fixed incorrect light updates.
* Fixed [[TNT]] not rebuilding graphics.
* Fixed [[TNT]] not exploding other [[TNT]].
* Can now spawn [[spruce tree]]s from [[spruce sapling]].
* Fixed black faces on [[fence]]s, [[door]]s and [[trapdoor]]s next to [[wall]]s.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:v0.9.0 alpha build 5}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.9.0 build 5]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 5]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.9.0 build 5]]
[[hu:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 5]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha build 5]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.9.0 alpha build 5]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.9.0 build 5 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.9.0.b5]]