{{Infobox version
|title=v0.12.1 alpha build 4
|image=Pocket Edition 0.12.1 build 4.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|parent=v0.12.1 alpha
|type=Build
|date=August 4, 2015
|versioncode=720120104 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 21)<br>
740120104 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 21)<br>
760120104 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 21)<br>
780120104 (x86, 21)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.12.1-build4.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.12.1-build4-honeycomb.apk Honeycomb]<br>
|prevparent=v0.12.0.1 alpha
|prev=v0.12.1 alpha build 3
|next=v0.12.1 alpha build 5
|nextparent=v0.12.2 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.12.1 alpha build 4''' is the fourth build released for [[Pocket Edition v0.12.1 alpha|v0.12.1]].

== Changes ==

* Quartz pillars can now be placed directionally.
* Trying to connect to old versions of the game will now show an error message.
* Added recipes for golden apple and enchanted golden apple.
* Added enchanted books to the creative inventory.
* "Stone Cutter" and Crafting Table screens will now close if blocks are destroyed while having it open.
* Improved controls

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.12.1 Beta 4|otherissuescount=12
|;From the 0.12.1 development versions
|MCPE-9333|Can't get back to the main screen. There is a back button loop.
|MCPE-9441|Less inventory in 0.12.0 than other versions
|MCPE-9448|Multiple crafting recipes appear for the same items
|MCPE-9540|Unable to make [wolves] stand up
|MCPE-9542|Big problems in domesticated animals ocelontes, wolf
|MCPE-10310|Changing D-pad size frequently sets it to the smallest size despite where you put the slider
|;From the previous development version
|MCPE-9545|World can be interacted with through the hotbar 
|MCPE-9552|No inventory Only on the left-handed mode
|MCPE-9568|Crafting an enchanted Golden Apple yields a regular Golden apple
|MCPE-9646|Snow golem Bug
|MCPE-9666|Can't craft shovels or swords in multiplayer
|MCPE-9667|You can not close the inventory with the same button that you open
}}
'''Other'''
*Farmland is not destroyed when jumping on it in multiplayer.
*Pressing the inventory button did not get the player back from multiple inventory screens.
*Crafting recipes were wrong in multiplayer.
*Partial blocks did not work properly in multiplayer.
*Game crashed when entering the nether repeatedly.
*When a controller is disconnected, the player continues the last action and other stuff.
*Players cannot drink potions in creative mode.
*Bane of arthropods does not deal additional damage to spiders.
*Furnace displayed blocks that were not in the player's inventory.
*Sky color is really dark. (Flat Worlds)
*Left Handed controls option.
*Regular golden apples and enchanted golden apples stacked with each other.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.12.1 build 4]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.12.1 alpha build 4]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.12.1 build 4]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.12.1 alpha build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.12.1 alpha build 4]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.12.1 build 4 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.12.1.b4]]