{{Infobox version
|title=v0.15.0 alpha build 1
|image=Pocket Edition 0.15.0 build 1.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.15.0 alpha
|date=June 3, 2016
|versioncode=840149900 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
841149900 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
870149900 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
871149900 (x86-jb, 22)
|prevparent=v0.14.3 alpha
|prev=Alpha Realms build 4
|next=v0.15.0 alpha build 2
|nextparent=v0.15.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.15.0 alpha build 1'''<ref>{{citation|url=https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2016/06/whats-in-015-the-friendly-update-for-pocket-win-10/|title=What’s in 0.15, The Friendly Update, for Pocket / Win 10?|website=[[mojang.com]]}}</ref> is the first build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha|v0.15.0]], also known as the [[Friendly Update]].<ref>{{citation|url=https://web.archive.org/web/0/https://www.mojang.com/2016/06/whats-in-015-the-friendly-update-for-pocket-win-10/|title=What’s in 0.15, The Friendly Update, for Pocket / Win 10?|website=[[mojang.com]]}}</ref>

== Additions ==
=== General ===
* [[Achievements]] for iOS and Android
** {{Version exclusive}}: More [[achievements]].
** Is accessed from the home screen
* Online multiplayer with Xbox Live friends
* New UI for the main menu, shared with the Windows 10 Edition
* New UI for the skins menu, it has a skin selection carousel that is similar to Console Edition

=== Gameplay ===
* Pig riding
** {{Version exclusive}}: New sound when accelerates.
* Interact buttons
** Boost, used when riding a [[pig]] with a [[carrot on a stick]].
** Name, used for name [[mobs]] using [[name tag]]s.

=== Blocks ===
* [[Piston]]s and [[sticky piston]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: New animation; piston arm is visibly thicker at the bottom.
** {{Version exclusive}}: Can push [[block entities]] such as [[chest]]s.
** {{Version exclusive}}: Blocks that stick to walls (such as [[levers]]) can now be placed on pistons or sticky pistons.
* [[Observer]]
** BUD block

=== Items ===
* Raw [[mutton]]
** Cooked [[mutton]]
* [[Fire charge]]s
* [[Spawn egg]]s
** [[Horse]]
*** [[Zombie horse]]
*** [[Skeleton horse]]
*** [[Mule]]
*** [[Donkey]]
** [[Stray]]
** [[Husk]]
** [[Wither skeleton]]
* [[Name tag]]s
* [[Lead]]s
* [[Carrot on a stick]]
* [[Tipped arrow]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Made with potion [[cauldron]]s.
* [[Horse armor]]
** [[Leather]] [[horse armor]]
*** {{Version exclusive}}: Can be dyed using a [[cauldron]].
*** Can be crafted with [[leather]].

=== Mobs ===
* [[Stray]]
* [[Husk]]
* [[Horse]]
** Includes [[skeleton horse]] traps.
* [[Zombie horse]]
* [[Mule]]
* [[Donkey]]

=== World generation ===
* New [[taiga]] and [[zombie village]] types.
* [[Jungle temple]]

== Changes ==
=== General ===
* {{Version exclusive}}: [[Experience]] bar is visible in [[Creative]].
* Online play uses less bandwidth now.
* Note blocks are a lot louder now.

=== Items ===
* [[Shears]]
** Now lose durability when breaking any kind of blocks.

=== Blocks ===
* [[Trapdoor]]s
** No longer require supporting blocks.
* [[Painting]]s
** Now have sounds when placed and broken.</onlyinclude>

=== Mobs ===
* [[Camera]]s now display the words "Take Picture", they no longer summon [[lightning]] and now have {{hp|2}}.

=== World generation ===
* Savanna [[village]]
** Now uses [[Wood|acacia wood]] instead of [[oak]].

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.0 build 1]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha build 1]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.15.0 build 1]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.15.0 alpha build 1]]
[[ru:Alpha v0.15.0 build 1 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.15.0.b1]]