{{Infobox version
|title=
|image=Pocket Edition 0.17.0.2.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|date=November 18, 2016
|versioncode=840170002 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
841170002 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
870170002 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
871170002 (x86-jb, 22)
|parent=1.0.0
|prevparent=v0.16.2 alpha
|prev=alpha 0.17.0.1
|next=alpha 1.0.0.0
|nextparent=1.0.1
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''Alpha 0.17.0.2''' (also known as '''1.0.0 build 2''') is the second build version released for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]], also known as the [[Ender Update]].<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/11/changelog-for-10-beta-build-2-aka-01702.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 1.0 beta build 2 (aka 0.17.0.2)|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref>

== Additions ==

* Added downloadable in-game music.
* Added [[mash-up pack]] (currently does not work).
* Added [[Seed Picker]]

== Changes ==

* Command {{cmd|locate}} is no longer available
* "100% dragon free" and "It's alpha" removed from the [[Splash]] text because the [[ender dragon]] has been implemented and the game is no longer in alpha.
* The player's device will now check to make sure they have enough available storage for the game before starting the download.
* Tweaked the [[slime]]/[[magma cube]] loot drops to the way they should be.
* Tweaked the natural texture pack description so it doesn't get cut-off.
* Lowest render distance value the player can have is now 3 chunks (because chunks get stuck trying to load if it's below 3).
* Tweaked the [[blaze]] charge time for attacks to match other editions.
* Tweaked chunk generation.
* Capitalized the "r" in Realms on the dialog text.
* Changed "Save world to device" text to "Download World"
* Changed "Create new world" text to "Create New"
* Tweaked the UI in the Realms selection screen so Realms don't move around slightly.
* Changed sign in button size.
* Added the ignite sound for [[minecarts with TNT]] & [[creepers]].
* Tweaked the error validation screen to better convey information about a failing Add-on pack.
* Localization fixes and an update to the Rift launcher (Win 10 Oculus Rift only).
* Tweaks to narration accessibility mode.
* Play screen layout & achievement screen tweaks.
* Text tweaks to keep them where they belong (and are readable!)
* "Leave Bed" button updated.

== Fixes ==
'''[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15800 3 bugs fixed]'''

'''From previous development versions'''
* {{Bug|MCPE-17616}} - Withers don't attack when summoned via command
* {{Bug|MCPE-17623}} - Wither attacks wither skeleton and stray
* {{Bug|MCPE-17984}} - Wither skeleton has normal skeleton texture after it summons

'''Other fixes'''
* Fixed biomes looking strange when loading previously generated worlds.
* No longer get "import failed" message when the [[player]] imports an Add-on that has already been imported- now they get a correct message!
* The Manifest Validation window now activates during a failed import of an Add-on with an exceptionally long pack name or description.
* Add-on packs with syntax errors in the manifests that worked in 0.16 will now also work in 0.17
* Baby ocelots who grow up to be adult ocelots can now be tamed.
* Enchantments found in End Cities are now the same strength as those found in other editions.
* Horse armor can now spawn in End Cities chests.
* Throwing a splash water bottle on an Enderman no longer crashes the game.
* If the [[player]] joins their friend's game while they are in a vehicle or riding an animal, their friend no longer clips through the vehicle/mount.
* All current textures will now update when switching resource packs.
* Snowballs now dispense properly.
* Fixed a bug with saddles/chests on donkeys and mules.
* Fixed the Dragon's breath AOE (area of effect) cloud
* Fixed buckets so they behave as they should in Creative.
* Iron golems now have full knockback resistance.
* Fixed a bug so now entering an End Portal always takes the player to the End (unless they're already in The End and then they go to the Overworld).
* The player can't use fishing rods on the ender dragon anymore
* Mob heads can be placed again.
* Applied Add-on packs now appear correctly in the UI while in game.
* Mushrooms obtained from shearing mooshrooms no longer have a blank icon in the player's inventory.
* Rabbits again properly eat carrot crops.
* Skeletons and strays will now follow the player during the day if it is raining or they are wearing a helmet.
* Fixed a crash potentially due to some player models. (iOS only)
* Fixed random colors on grass when a player overrides grass colors.
* Fixed carried waterlillies (lilypads) in resource packs - the pack files were named incorrectly.
* Eggs now cause knockback and make the mob/player flash when hit.
* Now only one "you have been given…" message displays per use when using the /give command.
* Fixed a bug that should improve response when players interact with some blocks.
* Pushed blocks no longer flicker once after being moved.
* Fixed bugs dealing with mob spawn rates (i.e. ghast spawn rate, increased the frequency of mob spawning in some cases, detecting whether a mob spawned from spawner)
* Recipes that have items that have a damage value will no longer have the wrong craft number in the pocket crafting UI.
* Beacon is now correctly highlighted in the pocket crafting screen when the player doesn't have all the ingredients to make one.
* Fixed a crash that happened when the player and a friend entered the End Portal fountain to see the credits but their friend was standing in front of them.
* Fixed a crash when an item went into a hopper.
* The strays' clothing now renders correctly!
* The store downloading layout now displays correctly (MCPE only).
* Skin picket custom button now sizes itself based on the length of text.
* Realms will no longer show up in the list of worlds the player can upload to their Realm.
* Settings are now correctly displayed on expired Realms.
* Paintings can have transparency now.
* XP orbs and loot now comes out of mobs with the smoke particles.
* The player no longer gain the Respiration effect from just holding an enchanted helmet.
* Melted ice blocks now create flowing water.
* All note blocks now start with the lowest note.
* The sound of a playing note block doesn't fade out too early now when the player walks away from it.
* Fixed ghast & lightning/thunder sounds.
* Creepers no longer use their hurt sound as an idle sound (as creepers are quiet!)
* Snow golem now has a special sound when they are hit or die.
* Zombie villagers, silverfish, squid, and husks now all make the sounds they are supposed to make.
* Leash offset for chickens corrected.
* Fixed another game crash when the player respawned.
* Cured zombie villagers now make the appropriate sounds when cured.
* When beds explode in The End, they now also destroy blocks.
* TNT ignition animation now looks like it does in other versions.
* Fixes to unusual minecart movement and minecarts floating above tracks.
* Elder guardian egg now renamed properly so resource packs can find it.
* Fixed issue where texture packs were not applying to mob heads.
* Fixed a crash after undoing an emoji in chat (MCPE iOS only).
* Fixed a timing issue with falling blocks.
* Ender dragon boss bar is now visible all the time during the dragon battle.
* Ender dragon no longer respawns each time the player reloads the game.
* Burning players are now extinguished when jumping in a cauldron with water in it.
* Witches spawn from witch huts now.
* Hoes till dirt again!
* Removed Realms offers from the store in the Android beta as well as any Realms purchases and features (because Realms don't work if the player is in the Android beta).
* Fixed a bug where the Ender dragon would appear in the Overworld after the character died in The End before killing it.
* Fixed a crash when opening a .mcworld file (MCPE iOS only).
* Fixed various unicode bugs.
* Fixed the Ender dragon's perch-mode fire break attack's radius.
* Ender crystals can now be destroyed in survival (Android only).
* The player can now use the left bumper on the controller on the inventory screen to wrap to the right side (MCPE only).
* Wrapping now allowed when cycling through tabs.
* Some characters in the chat text box are no longer moved off screen when the send button appears.
* "#" can be used in text boxes again.
* Advanced video settings toggle now saves its state.
* Chat can be closed again with the back button.
* Scroll bars should no longer have their max overshot value become negative.
* Fixed a crash relating to store screenshots.
* Fixed a crash on launch if there was no speech pack installed (Win 10 only).
* Chat messages again read in the correct order in narrator mode.
* Now there's a notification when keyboard shortcuts are used to toggle the TTS accessibility option (Win 10 only).
* Fixed some mob models not being able to be changed using mobs.json
* The player now see the hand movement & TNT's texture blink when joined to a game and the TNT is ignited.
* Fixed a bug where the Ender dragon would disappear if the game crashed while fighting it.
* Command output from /gamemode command is now displayed for other players.
* Fixed a severe FPS drop with lots of purple particles around the player while fighting the Ender dragon (Android only).
* Blaze projectiles are now visible (Realms only).
* Dragon head can move when powered without having to reload the game.
* The player is no longer repositioned at spawn when above 128 world height and the game is reloaded.
* Minecraft launcher no longer crashes when the hard drive is full (Win 10 Oculus Rift only).
* If the player is on their friend's world, they can now see their friend switching between mob heads.
* Protection enchantment fixed to be the same as other versions - it no longer protects against suffocation & cactus damage.
* Caves are no longer pitch black in VR (VR only).
* Fixed chunks of other dimensions (e.g. the Nether) generated when the player enters a dimension the second time on a server/game with a smaller render distance than them.
* Play screen now properly shows Realms trial when the trial is still available but the player has accepted a friend's Realm invitation.
* Achievement screen will now populate with a single list of achievements if suspending/resuming the player's game.
* If the player dies and rejoins a game, they are again respawned in their last bed (or at world spawn if their bed was destroyed) rather than where they died.
* 90 degree fences have correct collision boxes now.
* Fixed a bug where the sneak button wouldn't disappear when switch sneak/jump button option is active.
* Loading worlds from templates shouldn't fail sometimes anymore.
* Fixed a bug with using spawn eggs on spawners- it now behaves correctly.
* Fixed a duplication glitch with Eye of Ender.
* Ender crystals and projectiles fixed so players with short render distance can now fight the Ender dragon without issues.
* Cocoa pods now show a crack animation when breaking them.
* Various skin bug fixes.
* Lingering potion effects now refresh every few ticks if the player is standing in its effect cloud.
* If the player is in a friend's game and their friend throws an eye of ender, the animation now looks like it should.
* Fixed a crash caused by the End portal on certain graphics settings.
* Fixed a graphics bug where mob spawners allowed the player to see through the world.
* Fixed a graphics glitch with End gateway blocks near water.
* Fixed an occasional crash when the player returns through a Nether portal with a mob spawner nearby.
* Fixed the Ender charge so it doesn't slow down over time.
* Plastic texture pack particles fixed.
* Fixed the error message for the /give command when invalid values are entered.
* Dropped items now move to the next empty space when a block is placed on top of them.
* Silverfish now take damage when on soul sand.
* Fixed a crash when the game was resumed (MCPE iOS only).
* Fixed a crash that occurred when trying to join a LAN game.
* End gateway no longer suffocates the player.
* Fixed a crash when a game was stopped with players still logged into it.
* Thrown lingering potions now have a splash effect.
* The armor and clothes the skeleton models wear disappear when they're splashed with invisibility potion
* An animal on a lead should land safely on the ground now without taking any damage.
* Shulkers no longer attack the player when the difficulty is set to peaceful.
* Clocks again rotate at the same speed as one held in hand when placed in item frames in dimensions other than the Overworld.
* Villagers now run from zombie pigmen.
* Mobs no longer jump and turn near obstacles on slabs, carpet, etc.
* Fixes and updates for City, Fantasy, Natural, and Plastic texture packs.
* Weather now clears up after using the /toggledownfall command during a thunderstorm.
* The auto-complete list now show players that are on the same world but just in different dimensions than the player.
* The close button in the chest UI no longer overlaps an item slot when the player hovers their mouse over it (Win 10 only).
* The d-pad on the controller is now supported in the Exit Minecraft prompt.
* The player can now whisper to themselves in text chat in the game
* The player can now see the animation of a witch drinking a potion.
* Fixed crashes when loading terrain.
* Fixed an occasional crash when moving the visibility distance slider in the options.
* Importing a world with an Add-on will no longer fail due to duplicate world IDs.
* Held items are no longer cropped or off-frame when playing in a different aspect ratio so clocks & compasses will show up correctly again.
* When an Enderman is being hit, its head color is consistent - the bottom part no longer turns completely red.
* Clocks continue to work when dropped now.
* The player can no longer enter a vehicle while riding a pig/horse/donkey/mule.
* Cocoa pod stems are now correctly displayed.
* The game now registers mouse clicks as fast as the player clicks them.
* Fixed lag when the player's world is saving.
* Animals breed again (instead of just showing hearts with no baby appearing).
* Chat position is fixed.
* Throwing rate of snowballs is fixed.
* The spawn rate of Golden Apples in chests is fixed.
* Pointing the crosshair near the top or the bottom of a block while the player is in sneak mode no longer highlights the block next to the one the player wants.
* Framed maps' green indicators no longer disappear from a held map after the player teleports to another dimension.
* All zombie pigmen within range will now attack the player if they attack one of them.
* The anvil no longer deletes items if the game is closed while the screen is open.
* Leaves no longer act as opaque blocks when the Fancy Graphics option is off.
* Leaf blocks held in the hand or dropped on the ground now have transparency if Fancy Graphics option is on.
* Broken spruce and birch leaves no longer have different colors than they should.
* The player cannot walk through fences anymore.
* Compasses placed in item frames now show the correct direction towards spawn.
* Minecarts with mobs no longer fly upwards after the player joins a game.
* Fixed the looped sound for the ignite action.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when hostile mobs die.
* Fixed a crash when the player returned to their world after the credits ended.</onlyinclude>

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 0.17.0.2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 0.17.0.2]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 0.17.0.2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.0 build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 0.17.0.2]]
[[ru:1.0 build 2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.17.0.2]]