{{Infobox version
| vernum = 1.0.2
| title = v1.0.2
| image = Pocket Edition 1.0.2.png
| type = 
| internal = 1.0.2.1<br> '''Windows 10''' 1.0.201.0
| edition = Pocket Edition
| date = '''iOS, Android, Fire OS, Windows 10, Fire TV''' – January 19, 2017<br>'''Gear VR, Apple TV''' – January 25, 2017
|versioncode='''Android''':<br>
841000201 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
842000201 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
871000201 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
872000201 (x86-jb, 22)
| prevparent = 1.0.0
| prev = 1.0.1
| nextparent = 1.1.0
| next = 1.0.3
}}

'''1.0.2''' was an update to ''[[Pocket Edition]]'' and [[:Category:Bedrock_Edition|its derived editions]] released to fix some of the bugs and crashes in 1.0.0.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004125752|title=MCPE/WIN 10/Gear VR - 1.0.2}}</ref>

== Fixes ==

* [[Endermite]]s now attack from 8 blocks away.
* {{cmd|locate}} now works for [[stronghold]]s.
* Fixed an issue with [[lingering potion]]s not being able to be poured into or scooped out of [[cauldron]]s.
* [[Horse]]s can once again climb up blocks in every direction.
* Using lingering potions to craft tipped [[arrow]]s now creates the correct tipped arrow
* Fixed a crash when attempting to download music (Android only).
* The [[achievements]] screen layout now displays properly (Fire TV only).
* Fixed a rare crash that could happen if a large [[chest]] changed size as someone else was opening it.
* [[Endermen]] no longer teleport after death.
* [[Skeleton]]s and [[stray]]s now deal damage based on [[difficulty]] level.
* Skeletons and Strays now avoid [[wolves]].
* Fixed an issue when touch controls would suddenly look down.
* Fixed a crash when spawning a [[villager]] using a [[spawn egg]] and wearing enchanted [[armor]].
* Projectiles now work properly in multiplayer games.
* [[Item frame]]s can no longer be used to duplicate items
* Mobs no longer become invulnerable when hit with an invisibility [[potion]].
* Players no longer fall when re-entering a game after using [[elytra]].
* Fixed a crash when dyeing [[sheep]] on Realms.
* Fixed losing an empty [[bucket]] when milking a [[cow]] in multiplayer.
* Skull projectiles can now be deflected back at the [[wither]].
* The wither now faces the player it has targeted.
* Fixed missing [[end crystal]]s in some imported worlds.
* Fixed the time it takes for [[chicken]]s to lay [[egg]]s.
* Mobs can no longer be hit after they die.
* Fixed an issue when '.mctemplate' and '.mcaddon' files were not associated with Minecraft during import (iOS only).

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition 1.0.2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition 1.0.2]]
[[fr:Version portable 1.0.2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.0.2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket 1.0.2]]
[[ru:1.0.2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.0.2]]