{{Infobox version
|title=v0.14.0 alpha build 1
|edition=Pocket Edition
|image=Pocket Edition v0.14.0 build 1 banner.png
|image2=Pocket Edition 0.14.0 build 1.png
|type=Build
|parent=v0.14.0 alpha
|date=January 25, 2016
|versioncode=720140001 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 22)<br>
740140001 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 22)<br>
760140001 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
780140001 (x86, 22)
|prevparent=v0.13.2 alpha
|next=v0.14.0 alpha build 2
|nextparent=v0.14.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.14.0 alpha build 1'''<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/01/changelog-whats-new-in-0140.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog - What's new in 0.14.0?|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref> is the first build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.14.0 alpha|v0.14.0 alpha]], and the first build released in 2016.

== Additions ==

=== General ===
* [[Creative mode]]
** Added [[survival]] inventory tabs

* Replaced Pocket Edition start screen with new UI.

* Update texture of [[language]] button.
** Look more like Windows 10 Edition button.

* More [[Achievements]] (For Windows 10 Edition Only)

* [[Settings]]
** Change [[GUI]] size

* New interact buttons
** Open
*** Used when opening [[minecarts with chests]] and [[minecarts with hoppers]].

* New item rendering system

=== [[Blocks]] ===
* '''[[Redstone]]-related blocks'''
** [[Comparator]]s
** [[Dispenser]]s
** Double [[trapped chest]]s
** [[Dropper]]s
** [[Hopper]]s
** [[Repeater]]s

* New [[minecart]] variants
** [[Minecart with chest]]
*** {{Version exclusive}}: Emits smoke when destroyed.
** [[Minecart with TNT]]
*** {{Version exclusive}}: Emits smoke when destroyed.
** [[Minecart with hopper]]
*** {{Version exclusive}}: Emits smoke when destroyed.

* [[Cauldron]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: [[Water]] color can be changed by adding [[dye]]s.
** {{Version exclusive}}: Can be used to dye [[items]].
** {{Version exclusive}}: Can store [[potion]]s.
*** Will explode if potions are mixed.
** {{Version exclusive}}: [[Water bottle]]s can be used to refill [[water]].
** {{Version exclusive}}:  Are bubbling when holding a [[potions|potion]].

* [[Item frame]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Uses BlockEntity instead of [[Entity]].

* [[Red sandstone]]
** [[Red sandstone stairs]]
** [[Red sandstone slab]]
** [[Chiseled red sandstone]]
** [[Smooth red sandstone]]

* [[Slime block]]s

===  [[Items]] ===
* [[Ender pearl]]s
** Can be only obtainable through mods and inventory editing.
* [[Map]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Crafted using nine [[paper]].
** {{Version exclusive}}: [[Compass]] must be added through an [[anvil]] in order to show the player's position.
** {{Version exclusive}}: Can be cloned using the [[anvil]], instead of the [[crafting table]].
* [[Spawn Egg]]:
** [[Witch]]es.

=== World generation ===
* [[Witch hut]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Cauldron contains random [[potion]].

=== Creative inventory additions ===
* [[Spawn egg]]s
** [[Witch]]

=== Mobs ===
* [[Witch]]es

* {{Version exclusive}}: Added [[Camera]] back.
** New texture
** Now has a interact [[button]]
** Can only be received through inventory editing.

* <span style="color: gray;">JE 1.9 feature:</span> Uses new sounds.

== Changes ==

=== General ===

* '''Graphics'''
** Cleaned up textures
** Screenshots are full .png files

* [[Creative mode]]
** [[Chest]]s, [[anvil]]s, [[furnace]]s, [[dropper]]s, [[dispenser]]s, [[brewing stand]]s, [[enchantment table]]s, [[hopper]]s and [[crafting table]]s can now be interacted with by Creative mode players

=== Blocks and items ===

* [[Trapped chest]]s
** Will now form a double trapped chest when placed next to each other

* [[Leather armor]]
** Can now be dyed

* [[Pumpkin]]s and [[mob head]]s
** Can now be worn as armor by the player

* Double [[flowers]]
** Will now spawn their respective items when bonemealed

=== World generation ===

* [[Mineshaft]]s
** Now generate [[minecarts with chests]]

=== Mobs ===

* Baby [[zombie]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Now have a 15% chance of being a jockey. If they want to be a jockey, upon nearing the player or villager, they will check for one of the following to mount before attacking:
*** Adult [[chicken]]
*** Adult [[ocelot]]
*** Adult [[wolf]]
*** Adult [[zombie]]
*** [[Cow]]
*** [[Pig]]
*** [[Sheep]]
*** [[Spider]]

* [[Blaze]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Now glow in the dark

* [[Creeper]]s
** <span style="color: gray;">[[JE]] 1.9 Feature</span>: Are slightly shorter (1.7 blocks tall rather than 1.8).

* [[Enderman]]
** <span style="color: gray;">JE 1.9 Feature</span>: Drop the block they were holding when killed.

* [[Ghast]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Now have glowing eyes

* [[Magma cube]]s
** {{Version exclusive}}: Cores now glow in the dark

* [[Villager]]s
** Will now spawn a witch when struck by [[lightning]]
*** <span style="color: gray;">JE 1.9 Feature</span>: Are slightly taller (1.95 blocks tall rather than 1.8).

== Fixes ==

'''[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15475 67 bugs fixed]'''

* All clay types are displayed as gray blocks on the map.
* Double fence gates don’t block users.
* Player is unable to open minecart with chest and minecart with hopper.
* Player can’t close the chest window.
* Crash when a server kicks a player for inactivity.
* Startup Crash when Texture applied (MCPE Master only).
* Mechanisms are being powered by redstone dust that is not aligned with them.
* Building massive world structures can lead to serious performance issues.
* Crash when a farmer villager runs out of seed to plant.
* Controller’s D-pad is inactive in the brewing stand interface.
* Backgrounds & buttons in Asian languages are too short for longer phrases.
* TNT minecart explosion on the curve does not destroy rail tracks under explosion.
* Fixed most issues with chunks being sent multiple times.
* Fixed server not running at the correct speed.
* Amount of hits required to kill witch doesn’t vary with the weapon.
* Fixed out-of-bounds error in Inventory related to linked slots.
* Player keeps all but armor in their inventory upon death.
* Skeleton heads don’t look hollow from the bottom.
* Fence gates weren’t restoring their open state correctly either. The same pattern was needed as DoorBlock and TrapDoorBlock.
* Character's arms are in weird positions on Kindle and some iPads.
* The player is not able to open the chest when the character stands close to it.
* Items from the bottom half of the double chest disappear when the world is restarted.
* Missing Feed button when holding any kind of meat in front of an untamed wolf.
* Missing Feed button while holding beetroot and potato in front of a pig.
* No sound of swimming underwater.
* Player keeps moving after Player opens inventory screen with controller.
* Slots on anvil not lined up.
* Minecarts do not stack.
* The terrain flickers invisible if too many chunks are updated at the same time.
* Mushroom stew should not be poisonous.
* The darkening underwater effect fails to occur if the user rides a boat into a waterfall.
* Flickering fence texture when it’s put underwater.
* Clay generates instead of gravel.
* It is no longer possible to stack beetroot soup.
* Cannot use colors in chat.
* Mobs stay aggressive after switching back to creative.
* Endermen glitching.
* Fixed door textures.
* Fixed UI scaling issues.
* Previously-saved [[falling block]]s are once again properly loaded in.
* {{bug|MCPE-7947}} – You cannot bonemeal 2 high plants.
* {{bug|MCPE-8002}} – Animals and NPCs despawn randomly.
* {{bug|MCPE-9357}} – Invert Y-Axis cannot be turned on when using touch controls on any platform but works as expected with controllers.
* {{bug|MCPE-9378}} – Auto-jump cannot be turned off when using touch controls on any platform but works as expected with controllers.
* {{bug|MCPE-9555}} – The rain and snow cross the blocks.
* {{bug|MCPE-9803}} – Korean translation error in 0.11.0 & 0.12.1.
* {{bug|MCPE-9866}} – Nether portal facing the ocean won't show the water.
* {{bug|MCPE-10507}} – Tapping D-pad arrows highlights block beneath.
* {{bug|MCPE-10664}} – Enchantment tables hurt iron golems.
* {{bug|MCPE-11086}} – All mobs drop nothing unless killed by the player (or spawned or hurt by the player within 5 min of being killed).
* {{bug|MCPE-11166}} – Tamed Wolves display button Sit or Stand instead of Feed when holding Zombie flesh.
* {{bug|MCPE-11274}} – Trapped chests do not combine to form a large trapped chest.
* {{bug|MCPE-11282}} – Giant mushrooms are no longer spawned in terrain generation.
* {{bug|MCPE-11583}} – Milking a cow causes the player to drink the milk immediately.
* {{bug|MCPE-11585}} – Lily pads not generating in Swamp biomes.
* {{bug|MCPE-11586}} – Ghast attack animation does not appear when Ghasts attack.
* {{bug|MCPE-11845}} – Opening Menu causes the player to stop crouching or sneaking.
* {{bug|MCPE-11943}} – Trapped Chests Will Not Create Redstone Energy.
* {{bug|MCPE-12081}} – [0.13.1] Slim custom skin models are titled "skins.customSlim".
* {{bug|MCPE-12091}} – [Wolf] collars cannot display colors other than white.
* {{bug|MCPE-12097}} – [0.13.1] Held items do not move along with the arm.
* {{bug|MCPE-12102}} – [0.13.1] Player's arms do not move from the idle position when aiming a bow.
* {{bug|MCPE-12103}} – Monsters do not render armor properly.
* {{bug|MCPE-12161}} – Zombie Pigman hat layer is missing.
* {{bug|MCPE-12165}} – Mushrooms are not converted into giant mushrooms.
* {{bug|MCPE-12330}} – Mooshrooms, cows, pigs, sheep, and chickens don't panic after being attacked by a player.
* {{bug|MCPE-12353}} – Iron golem suffocates on non-full blocks.
* {{bug|MCPE-12451}} – No Achievement for Rainbow Collection.
* {{bug|MCPE-12594}} – Translation error Español (España).</onlyinclude>

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.14.0 build 1]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.14.0 alpha build 1]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.14.0 build 1]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.14.0 alpha build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.14.0 alpha build 1]]
[[ru:Alpha v0.14.0 build 1 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.14.0.b1]]