{{Infobox version
|title=v0.14.0 alpha build 2
|image=Pocket Edition 0.14.0 build 2.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.14.0 alpha
|date=January 27, 2016
|versioncode=720140002 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 22)<br>
740140002 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 22)<br>
760140002 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
780140002 (x86, 22)
|prevparent=v0.13.2 alpha
|prev=v0.14.0 alpha build 1
|next=v0.14.0 alpha build 3
|nextparent=v0.14.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.14.0 build 2'''<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/01/changelog-for-014-build-2_27.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 0.14 build 2!|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref> is the second build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.14.0 alpha|v0.14.0]].

== Changes ==
*Destroy [[particles]] now appear for [[item frame]]s.
*[[Zombie]]s now drop a [[zombie head]] when killed by charged [[creeper]].
*Moved progress bar for transferring stacks in [[dropper]], [[hopper]], and [[dispenser]] UIs.

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.14.0 Beta 2|otherissuescount=13
|;From released versions before 0.14.0
|9554|Skeletons armor not rendered correctly.
|11429|Zombies don't drop head.
|;From the previous development version
|12500|Detector Rail Crashes game when placed on grass.
|12512|Inactive TNT Minecarts Activate After Reopening.
|12522|When an item frame is broken, it breaks the block behind it also.
|12526|Item Frames turns invisible.
|12527|Item frame blinks showing light and dark texture.
|12546|Dyed leather armor of any color placed in the item frame shows white armor.
|12628|Witch hats too high on the head.
|12666|Super charged creepers animation is frozen.
}}
'''Others'''
*Item frames no longer disappear or corrupt when suspending the app.
*[[Anvil]]s no longer require or consume [[experience]] while in [[Creative]].
*[[Cauldron]] [[potion]] particles are no longer black.
*[[Pumpkin]] helmet overlays no longer mess up after changing UI scale.
*Fixed a potential crash on quit.
*[[Item]]s are no longer duplicated when thrown into a portal.
*Anvils, [[furnace]]s, and [[enchantment table]]s no longer duplicate items.
*Fixed lighting of item frames.
*Items in item frames can now be removed without destroying the item frame in Creative (though it is still broken in [[Survival]]).
*Mob heads are now less bugged while riding boats.
*[[Egg]]s now correctly break when thrown onto [[slab]]s.
*Pixels are more orderly on [[zombie villager]]'s legs.
*Missing pixels from the leather [[armor]] are now back.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.14.0 build 2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.14.0 alpha build 2]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.14.0 build 2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.14.0 alpha build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.14.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.14.0 build 2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.14.0.b2]]