{{Infobox version
|title=
|image=Pocket Edition 1.0.0.0.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|date=December 1, 2016
|versioncode=841000000 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
842000000 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
871000000 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
872000000 (x86-jb, 22)
|parent=1.0.0
|prevparent=v0.16.2 alpha
|prev=alpha 0.17.0.2
|next=alpha 1.0.0.1
|nextparent=1.0.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Alpha 1.0.0.0''' (also known as '''1.0.0 build 3''') is the third build version released for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]], also known as the [[Ender Update]].<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/12/changelog-for-10-beta-build-3-aka-1000.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: Changelog for 1.0 beta build 3 (aka 1.0.0.0)|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref>

== Additions ==

* Added a message on the World Templates screen to tell players how they can upload a world to their Realm.
* Command {{cmd|locate}} was added back but it does not work. Attempting to use it results in the "unknown command" error.

== Changes ==

* [[Shulker]]s now teleport smoother.
* Tweaked the flight time of [[elytra]] so it should behave as expected with the [[Unbreaking]] enchantment - also tweaked other elytra durability issues.
* Moved position of chat messages so they don't cover the health bar, armor bar, or the food bar.
* Tweaked lighting in [[The End]] so it doesn't look upside down.
* Tweaked the time it takes to catch something with a [[fishing rod]] to match other versions.
* Moving between tabs in menus while using the LB/RB on a controller now behaves as expected.
* Removed bold headings from the Manifest Validation screen.
* New ender pearl cooldown.

== Fixes ==

* Furnaces and enchanting tables no longer melt igloos.
* You can now ride on tamed horses that are on leads.
* Fixed a bug where the upper portion of a chorus plant would appear as if it was there after the chorus plant was broken (even though that part wasn't actually there anymore).
* Fixed a crash that occurred after selecting the [[seed picker]].
* Fixed an issue where you got an "unable to connect to the store" message instead of being able to get skin packs and texture packs (Rift and Gear VR only).
* Using LB/RB on a controller to select tabs in the Options menu now correctly highlights any tab that has behavior or resource packs.
* Fixed a crash that could happen if you logged out while in the [[End Poem]], logged back into the End Poem, and had global entities in the world.
* [[Fence gate]]s, [[daylight sensor]]s, and [[observer]]s no longer stop [[redstone]] wire from transferring the signal any further.
* [[End rod]]s can now be placed on the bottom of blocks even if there are blocks around them.
* [[Eyes of ender]] are no longer duplicated when placed in an [[End portal frame]] on an infinite world.
* Fixed a bug where mobs would take fall damage when teleported.
* Vertically placed End rods now break gravity-affected blocks that fall on them.
* [[Ender dragon]] audio is no longer present in the [[Overworld]] when a player is in the End.
* Gliding on elytra can now be cancelled by jumping or by running into walls or ladders.
* When in third-person view, your character no longer looks like it's spinning around when you look up and down while gliding with elytra.
* Fixed some issues with Realms invites and toast notifications of invites.
* [[Villager]]s no longer run exceptionally fast after being hit.
* Fixed a crash on the host player's device when one of their connected friends left a LAN game.
* Fixed a crash that could happen when attaching a graphics debugger.
* The [[Mob head|dragon's head]] texture no longer changes color when held in your hand.
* [[Endermen]] again teleport when a [[splash potion]] is thrown at them.
* [[End gateway]] fountain now always appears when the ender dragon is killed.
* Boss music is now present during the ender dragon fight.
* Light level below blocks placed at build limit height now correctly updates after the blocks are broken.
* Fixed The End crashing when a player went through an [[End portal]].
* The sound effect for an [[ender pearl]] now plays correctly and can be heard.
* Water can now protect [[obsidian]] blocks from getting destroyed by the [[wither]]'s spawn explosion.
* The [[Status effect#Invisibility|Invisibility]] effect is no longer affected by a player's personal [[Gameplay#Game modes|game mode]] changing.
* Shulkers that are hanging from the ceilings in [[End cities]] no longer die of suffocation.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when a player attacked the Wither with a melee attack.
* The "Cancel" button now appears in the music download menu.
* Fixed a crash when there was any input from a controller while the game was launching (Android and FireTV only).
* Gear VR hotbar is no longer stuck at the center of view (Gear VR only).
* [[Slime block]]s again display when held in your hand (VR only).
* You can no longer duplicate items with [[item frame]]s.
* Global texture packs with custom UI textures now apply on the start screen without having to restart the game.
* The ender dragon's death sequence now looks the same whether you are hosting a game or playing on someone else's game.
* You now need to stop riding a [[pig]] or a [[minecart]] in order to use an End Portal to travel to the End.
* The End portal now always teleports a player immediately (even if you fly into it).
* [[Bottle o' Enchanting|Bottles o' Enchanting]] and splash potions no longer jitter in the air when thrown.
* Fixed a bug where if a player went to sleep while it was raining in a Realm, it would continue raining when the player woke up but the rain would be visually gone. This made it appear as though the sun was not burning [[zombie]]s or [[skeleton]]s, [[fire]]s went out quickly without explanation, and made [[cauldron]]s fill up mysteriously. Now it actually does stop raining!
* [[Village]]s now spawn again naturally with different types of [[villager]]s instead of just [[farmer]]s.
* [[Iron bar]] cages around End crystals now respawn when the ender dragon is respawned.
* [[Lingering potion]]s now have a throwing sound.
* Every type of [[chest]] no longer has flickering sides in either the Cartoon, City, or Natural texture packs. The front of [[trapped chest]]s is now correct within every texture pack as well.
* [[Arrow]]s no longer turn black after hitting opaque blocks.
* Arrows now bounce when hitting closed shulkers instead of disappearing.
* [[Redstone comparator]] interaction with highly powered opaque blocks now matches other versions.
* [[Pressure plate]]s no longer get stuck in a pressed down position.
* Farmer villagers now harvest fully grown [[carrot]]s and [[potato]]es.
* Instead of teleporting away from the block, shulkers now lift gravity-affected blocks by opening and closing which causes the block to drop.
* [[Donkey]]s, [[mule]]s, and [[horse]]s now make appropriate reactions to different food items.
* If you use commands to try to give a player a stack of items greater than the max stack size (64), you now only get one stack of the item instead of an error.
* When a player gets hit by a shulker and levitates, the player now sees the correct [[Status effect#Levitation|Levitation]] effect icon.
* The appearance of [[leaf]] blocks is now consistent no matter what block you place next to them.
* Fixed a bug where elytra activation was delayed.
* Various bug fixes for the Plastic, Fantasy, City, Cartoon, and Natural texture packs.
* Fog now implemented for End portals and End gateways.
* "Could not connect: outdated server" message now displays when you try to join a server running [[Pocket Edition Alpha 0.16.0|0.16.0]] or earlier, instead of the incorrect "Disconnected from Server" message.
* Elytra now have roll animations.
* Mobs now behave properly regardless of block type (no more spinning on blocks made of half-blocks!)
* Tamed animals now teleport with the player into the End or the [[Nether]] (if they aren't sitting).
* Villagers no longer get stuck up ladders.
* End portals can no longer be activated in existing Old World types.
* Enchanted items have shiny effects again (VR only).
* Fixed a bug where standing on a block next to an End portal would teleport you as if you deliberately went into an End portal.
* Snow layers placed against other non-full blocks no longer delete the adjacent block.
* Using spawn eggs in [[Survival mode]] now results in an egg being used and removed from your inventory.
* Fixed a crash when you teleported away from the ender dragon during the summoning process.
* You can no longer walk through shulkers as if they were transparent.
* Worlds downloaded from Realms now correctly display the world name.
* Fixed a crash when you selected a Realm invite message multiple times and then accepted or declined the invitation.
* "You haven't added anyone to your friend's list!" message in Realms now displays properly (Android Galaxy Tablet only).
* Head icons are now visible on the hotbar when the inventory is opened.
* Mobs no longer jump and spin around if they move on to a [[bed]].
* You can see the point-of-view change when sneaking/crouching in immersive mode (VR only).
* Chat messages now only show up once!
* UI performance no longer gets worse the longer you use the UI when deleting items.
* Sliders now behave properly on Android and iOS devices when using a controller.
* The End Poem now has a skip button appear if you tap on the screen on devices without a back button.
* The ender dragon continues to move and update regardless of how far away you are from it.
* [[Dragon's breath]] clouds are now the correct color.
* All supported file extension types on Android should now work on Gear VR (Gear VR only).
* The hunger bar no longer depletes exceptionally fast when in a Realm.
* Fixed some lag issues when placing gravity-affected blocks in multiplayer.
* Chorus fruit and ender pearls now have a cooldown of 1 second.
* When filled with lingering potions, [[dispenser]]s now correctly shoot them (instead of magically transforming them into eggs when they shoot out!)
* Tools make breaking noises when they break again (Realms only).
* [[Dragon egg]]s now teleport when you try to mine them in Survival.
* Fixed a duplication glitch caused by hitting something.
* Game no longer hangs when saving a Realm to a device (Realms only).
* You are now teleported when you eat chorus fruit.
* Blocks held in your hand are no longer larger than they should be.
* [[Bow]]s can no longer be pulled back if you're out of arrows.
* [[Squid]] no longer disappear as soon as they reach the surface of water (Realms only).
* [[Diamond]]s can now be found randomly in generated [[Village/Structure (old)#Village structures|blacksmith]] chests.
* Lingering potions of Decay now have the correct texture.
* Various [[zombie]] bug fixes.
* Various [[rabbit]] bug fixes.
* Various [[chorus plant]] fixes.
* If you hit a [[spider]] in the daytime, nearby spiders won't try to attack you as well.
* You no longer keep your [[armor]] when you die (it drops like everything else).
* Fixed shulker health.
* Rain, smoke particles, and shadows are no longer visible when you're inside [[lava]].
* Chests no longer appear to be open after being closed.
* Mobs again spawn with enchanted items, and with the appropriate spawn and drop rate.
* [[Endermite]]s no longer gain super speed after reloading a world.
* [[Undead]] mobs no longer burn at night when they're close to the wither.
* End gateways now make the appropriate beams when created and/or used.
* World generation from seeds is now consistent between Pocket Edition and Windows 10.
* Fixed [[sign]]s and [[mob head]]s so they are placed facing direction based on the player's direction from a block.
* Pig [[saddle]] sounds can now be heard.
* You can now hear the sound of the Wither being summoned.
* [[Experience]] orbs no longer orbit your head when you pick up multiple orbs at once.
* [[Iron golem]]s you create will no longer attack you, ever.
* Undead mobs no longer burn in The End.
* The ender dragon no longer looks like it's taking fire damage when it is hit with an arrow while sitting.
* Resource pack images no longer show up in your device's picture gallery (Android only).
* [[Clouds]] are no longer rendered on top of players who are at or above cloud altitude.
* Shulker bullets are now destroyed when attacked.
* Shulkers now deal the correct amount of damage.
* Trapped chests no longer look the same as normal chests in your inventory, hotbar, or when dropped in the world.
* Fixed a crash that happened when a player got out of a minecart and then destroyed it.
* Tamed animals no longer take damage when you take damage from a [[potion]].
* Endermen no longer have status effects applied from tipped arrows (because they teleported away before they were hit).
* Bows enchanted with [[Flame]] and [[Power]] now work properly again and apply the correct effect or damage value to mobs.
* You can no longer destroy an End portal with [[water]].
* You can again walk from a [[slab]] to a block with [[carpet]] on top of it.
* Arrows fired from dispensers can be retrieved again.
* Boats and minecarts now make sounds when they are broken (Minecraft: Pocket Edition only).
* Fixed a crash when a player would spam the "Sign in For Free" button on the Xbox Live sign-in screen.
* The first hotbar slot is no longer always highlighted after re-entering a world.
* When you have a piece of armor in your hand and right click, it equips it if that slot is free.
* Fixed a crash when accessing settings on Realms (Realms only).
* Players can now sleep in partially-covered beds without suffocating.
* [[Ghast]] fireballs set blocks on fire again.
* Endermen again teleport after taking damage.
* You hear the sound again when you are taking damage from drowning.
* You can now hear the bubbling sound of fresh, hot lava!
* Fixed a bug where items wouldn't get placed correctly into item frames.
* Fixed the textures for the [[furnace]], [[dispenser]], and [[dropper]] when dropped in the world, in your hand, or in an item frame.
* Fixed a crash that happened when hostile mobs died.
* Now only the shulker's shell turns invisible when under the Invisibility status effect.
* The wither is now healed by arrows of Harming.
* Endermites now despawn after 2 minutes unless you name them with a name tag.
* T-T-S now reads output from {{cmd|say}}, {{cmd|tell}} and {{cmd|w}} commands.
* [[Cave spider]]s now apply the Poison effect when they attack you.
* The {{cmd|toggledownfall}} command now toggles off rain on Realms (Realms only).
* You can no longer join a game that has multiplayer disabled by manually adding the IP address.
* You can again connect to a Xbox Live account on FireTV (FireTV only).
* Cursor keys now work on Android (Android only).
* Fixed item transfer so it automatically moves the stack of items (Minecraft: Pocket Edition only).
* [[Brewing stand]]s will no longer look as if they are still brewing even when they are not.
* When using the Minecraft: Pocket Edition UI on Windows 10, scrolling no longer changes the hotbar selection (Windows 10 only).
* Fixed lag when riding an animal or in a minecart.
* Hovering over the chat with touch controls while controlling the camera no longer stops the camera from turning.
* Destroying an [[ice]] block no longer also destroys the block underneath it.
* Fixed [[biome]] graphics issues when loading older worlds.
* Fixed the ender dragon's shadow so it isn't extraordinarily large.
* [[Pumpkin Seeds|Pumpkin]] and [[melon seeds]] textures now render correctly.
* Fixed lighting for water.
* Health bars for bosses now update and appear correctly.</onlyinclude>

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.0.0]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.0.0]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 1.0.0.0]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.0 build 3]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 1.0.0.0]]
[[ru:1.0 build 3 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.0.0.0]]