{{DEFAULTSORT:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.5.03}}<nowiki/>
{{Infobox version
|title=alpha 1.0.5.3
|image=Pocket Edition 1.0.5.3.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=1.0.5
|date=March 15, 2017
|versioncode=841000503 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
842000503 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
871000503 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 24)<br>
872000503 (x86-jb, 24)
|prevparent=1.0.4
|prev=alpha 1.0.5.0
|next=alpha 1.0.5.11
|nextparent=1.0.6
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Alpha 1.0.5.3''' (also known as 1.0.5 build 2) is the second build version released for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.5|1.0.5]].<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004125492|title=MCPE Android Beta - 1.0.5 Build 2}}</ref>

== Changes ==
* Removed {{cmd|particle}}
* Adjusted the levitation amplifier parameters when using the {{cmd|effect}} command

== Fixes ==
* Saved worlds, previously added servers & any installed Add-Ons now appear again.
* Villagers no longer pick up your items when you die.
* Mobs spawned with eggs will no longer get stuck inside blocks.
* Players can no longer enter blocks and suffocate after swimming with Elytra.
* The touchscreen will no longer get stuck continuing to drop items from the first hotbar slot.
* Fixed a crash relating to structures when updating a world from 1.0.3.
* Fixed {{cmd|clear}} arguments resetting 'Times' values when using the {{cmd|title}} command.
* Previous output will no longer show any information for new Command Blocks.
* Using <code>clear @p <item_name></code> clears one instead of all specified items from the Inventory.
* Fixed {{cmd|effect}} being unable to remove specific effect by providing duration 0.
* An error message will now state that 0 items were removed after using {{cmd|clear}} command with a block that was not present in the inventory.
* The <code>effect clear</code> command will no longer output a redstone signal from a Command Block if it fails.
* Fixed an invalid syntax error when using {{cmd|spreadplayers}} command.
* Items with data tags besides 0 will now be properly removed with the {{cmd|clear}} command.
* <code>Entity</code> can now be auto-completed in the chat window when using the {{cmd|replaceitem}} command.
* Chat will no longer flicker when the touch keyboard is opened.
* Villagers will no longer throw bread like they were baseball pitchers.
* When copying an Item with {{key|CTRL}}+{{key|MMB}}, an additional copy will now be placed in the hotbar.
* Skin picker works again on Android versions less than 6.0.
* Canceling the download of a Resource Pack will now allow for re-downloading the pack.
* Always active repeating Command Blocks will now run their commands after being run in impulse always active mode.
* Passing through an Activator Rail will no longer eject the player on top of Rails.
* Many commands now show better result messages when executed.
* Fixed a crash when dying from Wither or instant damage effects triggered by commands.
* Using 0 as <code>[''maxCount'']</code> in the {{cmd|clear}} command now gives the item count instead of removing it.
* Fixed the spawn time of Mob Spawners to be randomized instead of constant.
* Mob Spawners will no longer always spawn the maximum number of mobs.
* Items can no longer be duplicated using item frames.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.5.3]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 1.0.5.3]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 1.0.5.3]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.0.5 build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 1.0.5.3]]
[[ru:1.0.5 build 2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.0.5.3]]