{{Infobox version
|title=v0.12.3 alpha
|edition=Pocket Edition
|image=Pocket Edition 0.12.3.png
|date='''Android''' - October 22, 2015<br>'''iOS, Fire OS, Windows Phone, Windows 10''' - October 23, 2015
|versioncode='''Android''':<br>
720120300 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 22)<br>
740120300 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 22)<br>
760120300 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
780120300 (x86, 22)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.12.3.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.12.3-gingerbread.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.12.3-honeycomb.apk Honeycomb]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.12.3-x86.apk x86]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.12.3-AmzApp.apk Amazon Appstore]
|prevparent=v0.12.0 alpha
|prev=v0.12.2 alpha
|nextparent=v0.13.0 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.12.3 alpha'''<ref>https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15393</ref> is a minor update to [[Pocket Edition]] and the [[Windows 10 Edition]] Beta released on October 22-23, 2015, which fixes some bugs.

== Additions ==
'''[[Skin/Skin pack|Skin packs]]'''
* {{Version exclusive}}: [[Halloween Costumes Skin Pack]].

== Changes ==
* Description for LAN option changed from ''Local Server Multiplayer'' to ''Broadcast to LAN.''
* [[Lava lake]]s are no longer generated independently of the [[world seed]].
== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.12.3|otherissuescount=8
|;From released versions before 0.12.0
|7829|Multiplayer minecart reverses course.
|8998|Dungeons appear with an empty spawner and an invisible chest.
|;From 0.12.0
|9985|Item tooltips incorrectly function on certain touch devices.
|10253|Unable to visually crouch/stand in 1st person view.
|;From 0.12.1 development versions
|9633|Invulnerable Pigs.
|9722|Breaking blocks in survival instantly.
|9902|Items not in hand while sneaking.
|10260|Second skin layer does not show up correctly while crouching.
|10281|Enchantments on items disappear.
|;From 0.12.1
|10512|Flickering inventory tags.
}}
'''Other'''
* Tooltip position was incorrect, and visibility time was too short.
* Fixed so controller doesn’t lose its functionality on the death screen.
* Prevented Mojang logo from appearing sideways on iPhone 6 Plus.
* Stopped mining strength passively growing, allowing one-hit block breaks.
* Item from 1st slot of hotbar got duplicated when placed on different hotbar slot from inventory.
* Controller tooltip (“[X] Tab”) doesn’t overlap in the hotbar in the inventory menu.
* Player couldn’t use controller’s D-pad to navigate through the inventory menu.
* Lakes are no longer generated independently of the world seed.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.12.3]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.12.3 alpha]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.12.3]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.12.3 alpha]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.12.3 alpha]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.12.3 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.12.3]]