{{Infobox version
|title=v0.10.0 alpha build 4
|image=Pocket Edition 0.10.0 build 4.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.10.0 alpha
|date=October 31, 2014
|versioncode=720100003 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 19)<br>
740100003 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 19)<br>
780100003 (x86, 19)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build4-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build4-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build4-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.9.5 alpha
|prev=v0.10.0 alpha build 3
|next=v0.10.0 alpha build 5
|nextparent=v0.10.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.10.0 alpha build 4''' is the fourth build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha|v0.10.0]].

== Changes ==
* [[Glass]] walls have again only one side as in PC.
* The game now limits its CPU usage when in the background.

== Fixes ==
'''12 bugs fixed'''
* Fixed all black screen issues.
* Fixed missing stencil shadows on many devices.
* Removed black lines from torches and flowers on PowerVR devices.
* Fixed excessively close underwater fog with Fancy disabled.
* Slope rails now have a correct hitbox.
* Fixed the number of dyes obtained from flowers and bones.
* Fixed spawning in leaves.
* Fixed a crash/corruption happening on app switch/reset.
* Fixed a memory leak on world creation.
* Now showing shadows on alpha tested tiles (glass, leaves).
* Chickens don't have a black artifact under their head anymore.
* The brightness of the player in the armor inventory doesn't follow the in-world brightness anymore.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.10.0 build 4]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 4]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.10.0 build 4]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.10.0 alpha build 4]]
[[zh:携带版0.10.0.b4]]