{{Infobox version
|title=
|image=Pocket Edition 0.17.0.1.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|date=November 11, 2016
|versioncode=840170001 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
841170001 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
870170001 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
871170001 (x86-jb, 22)
|parent=1.0.0
|prevparent=v0.16.2 alpha
|next=alpha 0.17.0.2
|nextparent=1.0.1
}}<onlyinclude>

'''Alpha 0.17.0.1''' (also known as '''1.0.0 build 1''') is the first build version released for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]],{{efn|Pocket Edition Alpha 0.17.0 would not be a version of the game and its builds are instead part of 1.0.0.}} also known as the [[Ender Update]].<ref>{{citation|url=http://pocketbeta.minecraft.net/2016/11/10-beta-changelog-build-1-aka-01701.html|title=Minecraft: Beta Changelogs: 1.0 beta changelog build 1 (aka 0.17.0.1)|website=pocketbeta.minecraft.net}}</ref>

== Additions ==

=== General ===

* World seed library
* Support for world templates

=== Mobs ===

* [[Ender dragon]]
* [[Shulker]]
* [[Polar bear]]
* [[Endermite]]
* [[NPC]]
** Because it is an element of {{el|ee}}, it doesn't spawn in normal play
** It exists in .apk file
* [[Agent]]
** Because it is an element of {{el|ee}}, it doesn't spawn in normal play
** It exists in .apk file

=== Generated structures ===

* [[The End]]
* [[End city]] (Has no banners due to them being unimplemented features)
* [[Chorus plant]]
* [[Igloo]]
* [[End gateway portal]]
* [[End portal frame]]
* [[Exit portal]]

=== Items ===

* [[Dragon's breath]]
* [[Elytra]] (called "Elytra Wings")
* [[Ender crystal]]
* [[Chorus fruit]]
* [[Ender pearl]]
* [[Eye of ender]]
* [[Lingering potion]]s
* [[Popped Chorus Fruit]]
* [[Spawn Egg]]s
** [[Shulker]]s
** [[Endermite]]s
** [[Polar Bear]]s

=== Blocks ===

* [[Chorus flower]]
* [[Chorus plant]]
* [[Ender chest]]
* [[End gateway (block)|End gateway]]
* [[End portal (block)|End portal]]
* [[End stone brick]]
* [[End rod]]
* [[Dragon egg]]
* [[Dragon head]]
* [[Purpur block]], pillar, [[slab]] and [[stairs]]
* [[Stained Glass]] and [[Glass Pane|Stained Glass Panes]]
** Stained Glass blocks use the regular glass texture due to issues with the rendering engine.
** They cannot be crafted in Survival and are not in the Creative inventory.
* [[Structure block]]
** Only accessible with mods. Cannot be obtained with the {{cmd|give}} command, or with inventory editing.
* [[Structure void]]
** Only accessible with mods. Cannot be obtained with the {{cmd|give}} command, or with inventory editing.

=== Commands ===

* {{cmd|locate}}
* {{cmd|connect}}
* {{cmd|fly}}

=== Gameplay ===
* [[Levitation]] effect

== Changes ==

=== General ===
* Enable Text To Speech for Chat Option in Music Settings
* Added a UI Profile "Pocket" and "Classic (like in [[Windows 10 Edition|Windows 10]])" in Advanced Video Settings
* Various tweaks to Add-Ons, including improvements to loading.
* Stronger validation of Add-Ons manifest
* Tweaked opacity of pop-up windows for easier reading.
* Creative search tab now selects the search box when switching tabs and when typing any character even if the box is not selected.
* "Your home bed was missing or obstructed" message now appears if the player dies and their bed was destroyed.

=== Items ===

* A way to get [[tipped arrow]]s like in [[Java Edition 1.9]], but it still works with cauldrons.
* Tweaked [[enchanted golden apple]]s so they have the correct amount of absorption health points.
* Transferring items between containers should be faster now.
* There is now an animation for throwing items.
* Wearing a [[pumpkin]] helmet prevents endermen from attacking the player.
* The player can now make huge [[mushroom]]s from regular mushrooms.
* The player can now drink [[milk]] in Creative mode.
* Beetroots and beetroot stew appear in the player's Creative inventory.

=== World ===

* Increased building height from 128 to 256.
* [[Stronghold]]s now generate randomly in new chunks.

=== Mobs ===

* Baby [[zombie]]s now drop loot upon death.
* [[Snow golem]]s now attack [[silverfish]].
* [[Villager]]s now turn into zombie villagers when they are killed by a husk.
* Now only adult [[cow]]s can be milked.
* Potatoes and beetroot can once again be used to feed and breed [[pig]]s.
* Mobs killed by tamed mobs will now drop XP.
* The [[Wither]] is no longer hostile to wither skeletons and strays.
* [[Magma cube]]s no longer take damage from water.
* Negative effects from splash potions no longer affect endermen (as they teleport away quickly).
* Lured mobs no longer push the player around when they're riding a pig/horse/mule/donkey.
* "Dye" button is displayed when trying to dye a [[sheep]].
* Untamed horses/mules/donkeys no longer follow the player when they're holding food.

== Fixes ==

* Sound & music effect volume issues fixed.
* Fixed issues with text lagging when updating (& not updating scroll bar visibility, too).
* Fixed various text sizing and spacing issues.
* Lava and water should again go where the player points to place them.
* Worlds again displayed in the Play tab for Win 10 players with utf-8 symbols in their names.
* Fixed a crash when players with utf-8 symbols in their names tried to delete a world.
* FOV slider now shows the correct value.
* Stone blocks should now show up in all recipes when using the MCPE crafting screen.
* Fixed a game crash on startup if the player had two monitors connected with different DPIs (Win 10 only).
* Android keyboard will no longer switch to the numeric keypad if the player locks and unlocks the screen (Android only).
* No more crashing when eating mushroom stew.
* Realm names no longer overlap the number of players actively in the realm.
* Fixed a crash when the player's internet connection dies while using Replace World on Realms.
* Guardians, wither skeletons & blazes respawn naturally again when switching from peaceful game mode to easy/normal/hard, however, they will only do this in newly generated structures, not ones that have already been discovered.
* Fixed the Store getting stuck on "Getting products…" screen
* Fall momentum now saved even if the player closes & reopens a world.
* Skeleton horse traps should now work correctly (multiple bug fixes).
* The player now has to actually brew a potion to get the achievement.
* "Local Brewery", "Monster Hunter" and "Archer" achievements fixed.
* Cycling through commands to get to the @ character now properly displays all available values.
* Minecarts with chests/hoppers/TNT no longer get stuck halfway in a block if they run into it.
* Mobs can drown again.
* Fixed a crash on mobile devices if game was launched without wi-fi enabled (MCPE only).
* Fixed arrow hit sound effect.
* TTS narrated messages are no longer interrupted by sending a new message.
* Sprinting fixed so it doesn't stop unless hunger is low.
* Fixed a crash with the /drop command.
* Paintings can no longer run into each other at right angles.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when selecting a world for Replace World for realms (iOS only).
* Fixed a bug that caused mining to go slowly after a player reconnected to a multiplayer game while riding a horse.
* Fixed a bug where the player could use commands to have buckets place other blocks.
* Cats no longer change their textures back to ocelots when worlds created before 0.16 are loaded.
* Fixed a bug where the villager reproduction rate was capped by something other than door count.
* Fixed a bug where game would hang on a black screen during launch (Fire TV only).
* Fixed a bug where endermen would get angry even if the player only looked at their torso.</onlyinclude>

== Notes ==

{{fnlist}}

== References ==

{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition alpha 0.17.0.1]]
[[es:Pocket Edition alpha 0.17.0.1]]
[[fr:Version portable alpha 0.17.0.1]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition alpha 0.17.0.1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket alpha 0.17.0.1]]
[[ru:1.0 build 1 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[uk:Alpha 0.17.0.1 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.17.0.1]]