{{Infobox version
|title=v0.10.0 alpha build 1
|image=Pocket Edition 0.10.0 build 1.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.10.0 alpha
|date=October 17, 2014
|versioncode=720100000 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 19)<br>
740100000 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 19)<br>
780100000 (x86, 19)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build1-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build1-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.10.0-build1-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.9.5 alpha
|next=v0.10.0 alpha build 2
|nextparent=v0.10.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.10.0 alpha build 1''' is the first build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha|v0.10.0]].

== Additions ==

* Upgraded the rendering system to use OpenGL ES 2.0 (coming from 1.1), using OpenGL 3.0 where available.
* Ported tinted lighting from {{el|je}}.
* Ported the round fog from Java Edition.
* Some performance increase on most devices.
* Mesa biomes have gold at every elevation and can spawn mine shafts on the surface.
* Added dust particles falling from unstable gravel and sand.
* Added more [[Wood|wood types]] for [[fences]] and [[fence gate|gates]].
* Added adjustable brightness (gamma) setting to adjust the darkness of dark terrain.
* iOS: Added a 64-bit build for compatible iOS devices.

== Changes ==

* New double-sided lighting on entities and clouds that's more coherent with the terrain.
* Enabled mipmaps on Android devices supporting GLES 3.0.
* New [[water]] shader.
* Water is now brownish in [[biome|swamps]].
* Faster rebuilding of chunks.
* Added smooth lighting on water and smooth color transitions.
* [[Huge mushrooms]] now spawn in swamps.
* Ignore swipes from outside the screen so exiting fullscreen/activating Control Center doesn't turn the view.
* The selection overlay on vines/tall grass now has the correct shape.
* Added a selection overlay on [[Chests]] and [[Signs]].
* The error messages when a World can't be opened are now more informative about what happened.
* Enabled Day/night cycle in Creative.

== Fixes ==

'''14 bugs fixed'''

* Fixed a crash when rendering Mob Spawners.
* iOS: Fixed freezing when receiving a notification/showing the Control Center.
* iOS: Fixed a crash/memory leak happening when showing the system keyboard - signs and the chat.
* Android: fixed a corruption and possible crash when switching apps.
* Fixed the "spawning in the air" bug.
* Fixed a crash when creating lava during world generation.
* Water now pushes things
* Fixed a white artifact on torches held in hand.
* Fixed holes appearing in the clouds.
* Fixed a brown artifact appearing on the bottom of Minecarts.
* Fixed a random crash in multiplayer.
* Fixed a possible crash when selecting double chests.
* The time of day is now more accurately synced in multiplayer.
* Fixed chunks vibrating and becoming detached at high X/Z coordinates.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.10.0 build 1]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.10.0 build 1]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.10.0 alpha build 1]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.10.0 alpha build 1]]
[[zh:携带版0.10.0.b1]]