{{Infobox development phase
|image = Pocket Edition v0.1.0 alpha (Xperia Play).png
|image2 = Pocket Edition 0.16.2.png
|startver = [[Pocket Edition v0.1.0 alpha|v0.1.0 alpha]] (August 16, 2011)
|currentver = [[Pocket Edition v0.16.2 alpha|v0.16.2 alpha]] (November 18, 2016)
|paid = Yes
|nextparent = Pocket Edition
|nextparentlink = Pocket Edition#Full Release
|latestver = [[Pocket Edition v0.16.2 alpha|v0.16.2]] (November 17, 2016)
}}
'''Alpha''' ('''Beta''' for ''[[Windows 10 Edition]]'') was the first development phase of ''[[Pocket Edition]]'' and its derived editions, developed for over 5 years, from August 16, 2011, to November 17, 2016. Alpha/Beta was succeeded by the full release of [[Pocket Edition 1.0.0]] on December 19, 2016.

== Unique Features ==
'''Blocks'''
* Water color can be changed in [[cauldron]]s by adding [[dye]]s. This dyed water can be used to dye items such as [[leather armor]].
* [[Cauldron]]s can store potions, and will make an explosion sound (not a real explosion) if potions are mixed, making the potions disappear. Potions in cauldrons can be used to make a tipped arrow.
* [[Chests]] are directional; adjacent chests will not connect to form a large chest if they are facing different directions. Chests can be placed next to a large chest horizontally.
* [[Glowing obsidian]], which replaced the [[Nether reactor]] structure, except for the [[Nether reactor core]] block.
* [[Invisible bedrock]] which generates at the edges of the world.
* [[Nether reactor core]], which was used to generate Nether reactors before the addition of [[the Nether]].
* [[Stonecutter/old|Stonecutters]], used to craft stone-related items, as there was not enough space in the crafting system.
* [[Update game block]], which appears when a world with blocks added in a newer version is loaded in an older version.

'''Items'''
* [[Leather armor]] can be dyed in [[cauldron]]s, instead of in the [[crafting grid]].
* Leather [[horse armor]] can be dyed using a cauldron, and can be crafted using 7 [[leather]] in the shape of an "H".

'''World generation'''
* Early versions used terrain and biome generation akin to that of [[Java Edition Beta]]. (more specifically, [[Java Edition Alpha v1.2.0|Alpha v1.2.0]] to [[Java Edition Beta 1.7.3|Beta 1.7.3]])
** [[Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha|Alpha v0.9.0]] and subsequent versions brought both more in line with [[Java Edition 1.7.2]] and beyond.
* Biomes that would exceed the 128-block height are shrunk to fit in, although the maximum tall block is a 256-block height limit.
* [[Far lands]] in infinite worlds generate Far Lands since X/Z: ±12,550,821, like prior to [[Java Edition Beta 1.8|Java Beta 1.8]].
* [[Old]] world type
** Generates as a finite world 256 blocks in length and width, while 128 blocks in height.
** Nether and end portals can be activated.
* [[Nether reactor]], which was used before the addition of [[the Nether]]: generates a large spire made of netherrack.
* Fallen trees, which are composed of a trunk lying on its side, sometimes with vines and [[mushroom]]s, and a stump one to two blocks away in the direction the rings are facing.
* [[Superflat|Flat]] world type

'''Gameplay'''
* The HUD and other elements are adapted to mobile standards of gameplay. Interactions are made via touchscreen (both the iOS and Android versions of ''[[Pocket Edition]]'' have the same gameplay<ref>{{tweet|kappische|142677729135968256}}</ref>).
** [[Crafting]] uses the [[Crafting/Before Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha|MATTIS]] system, and items are disposed of by long-tapping their icon on the toolbar.
** For better visibility, blocks being aimed at are highlighted rather than outlined.
** Curiously, these versions of Pocket Edition have the fewest number of inventory slots for use, that being three.
** Note that the [[Java Edition 22w13oneBlockAtATime|One Block At A Time]] April Fools joke of 2022 is not the one to have the fewest slots, as via riding a horse, donkey, mule, or llama, you can access its inventory, and in turn your own.
* [[Windows 10 Edition]]'s crafting menu is similar to [[Java Edition|Java]]'s and [[Legacy Console Edition|Console]]'s crafting menus.
* [[Multiplayer]] allows for four ways of player connection:
** Through LAN, which allows 5 players to be on a single world.
** Through [[Pocket Realms]]; Pocket Realms was closed in [[Pocket Edition v0.7.6 alpha|Alpha v0.7.6]] and was available again in [[Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha|Alpha v0.15.0]].
** Through a user-created external server.
** Through Xbox Live.

'''General'''
* [[Add-on]]s, used to change the way things in the game look and behave.
* Behavior packs, which are used to change the behavior of entities.
* World templates, which can be used to import the world from outside.
* [[Skin]]s have extra pixels on the skin model, and multiple skin packs are available.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}
{{Navbox version history}}

[[es:Pocket Edition Alpha]]
[[it:Pocket Edition Alpha]]
[[ko:포켓 에디션 알파]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket Alpha]]
[[ru:Alpha (Pocket Edition)]]
[[th:รุ่น Pocket Alpha]]
[[uk:Alpha (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版Alpha]]