{{Infobox version
|title=v0.8.0 alpha build 4
|edition=Pocket Edition
|image=Pocket Edition 0.8.0 build 4 in game.jpg
|image2=Pocket Edition 0.8.0 build 4.png
|type=Build
|parent=v0.8.0 alpha
|date=November 27, 2013
| versioncode = 300800004
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MinecraftPE0.1.0/Minecraft%20PE%200.8.0%20build%204.apk Original]
|prevparent=v0.7.6 alpha
|prev=v0.8.0 alpha build 3
|next=v0.8.0 alpha build 5
|nextparent=v0.8.1 alpha
}}
<onlyinclude>

'''v0.8.0 alpha build 4''' is the third build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha|v0.8.0 alpha]].

== Additions ==

* Added red [[carpet]]s to the [[survival]] crafting menu.
* Added a version watermark to help tell the build from screenshots.

== Changes ==

* [[Lava]] and [[fire]] now trigger [[TNT]] much more aggressively.
* Faster switching from background on Android.
* [[Potato]]es and [[carrot]]s aren't dropped anymore by tilling grass.
* In [[creative]] mode, [[player]]s stop being on fire as soon as they exit fire or lava.

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.8.0 beta build 4|otherissuescount=9
|;From the 0.8.0 development versions
|MCPE-5792|Liquids not showing up at sight level.
|MCPE-5794|Game goes dark: black screen when hitting mobs.
|MCPE-5799|Rendering issue with armor page.
|MCPE-5810|Sideways logs randomly have the wrong texture.
|MCPE-5816|Items leave trail on chest UI.
|MCPE-5821|Two issues related to breeding chickens and pigs.
|MCPE-5862|Not possible to make carpets in survival mode.
|MCPE-5869|Minecarts don't ride smoothly going up or down mountains.
|MCPE-5876|Animals turn black.
|MCPE-5901|Issue with TNT explosion.
|MCPE-5903|MCPE 0.8.0 beta build 2 chest issue.
|MCPE-5904|MCPE 0.8.0 beta build 2 incorrect armor selection.
|MCPE-5924|After the flint and steel runs out, when you click it again, it crashes.
|MCPE-5940|An issue related to beds.
|MCPE-5964|An issue related to eggs.
}}

'''Other'''
* Fixed a crash in the "Manage Realms" section.
* Added baked potato description.
* Added charcoal description.
* Fixed typo in iron bars description.
* Fixed arrow smoke being very fast when the arrow is stuck.
* Fixed top cactus texture.
* Fixed crash when picking up an arrow on fire.
* Fixed the bad graphics bug.
* Removed one bone meal from the creative inventory.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.8.0 build 4]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha build 4]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.8.0 build 4]]
[[hu:Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha build 4]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.8.0 alpha build 4]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.8.0 alpha build 4]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.8.0 build 4 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.8.0.b4]]