{{Infobox version
|title=v0.11.0 alpha build 5
|image=Pocket Edition 0.11.0 build 5.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.11.0 alpha
|date=April 17, 2015
|versioncode=720110005 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 21)<br>
740110005 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 21)<br>
780110005 (x86, 21)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build5-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build5-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build5-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.10.5 alpha
|prev=v0.11.0 alpha build 4
|next=v0.11.0 alpha build 6
|nextparent=v0.11.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.11.0 alpha build 5''' is the fifth build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha|v0.11.0]].

== Additions ==
* New splashes on the title screen.{{info needed|Which splashes exactly?}}

== Fixes ==
{{fixes|fixedin=0.11.0 Beta 5|project=MCPE
|;old
|8143|Can click invisible cancel button during terrain generation.
|;dev
|8187|You can fall through blocks while coming from top of a not-full block (like slabs or chests).
|8231|When Tnt blows up, it destroy other tnts instead of priming them up.
|8233|Chests delete all items stored after loading a new world.
|;prev
|8263|When I spawn a boat beside a block, it doesn't go.
|8266|Crash after exiting app: null pointer exception in <code>isNetworkEnabled</code>.
|8279|Crash when quitting to title whilst opening a chest.
|otherissuescount=15}}

'''Other'''
* Fixed chat formatting character skipping.
* Fixed {{cd|SetEntityData}} packet destruction.
* Fixed bobber corruption.
* Fixed a crash when loading an invalid skin.
* Fixed milk name.
* Fixed enderman name.
* Fixed a crash on arrows after reloading world.
* Fixed effect particles not being removed after drinking milk.
* Fixed spawn eggs being used in Creative mode.
* Fixed a background queue deadlock.
* Fixed a crash during quitting.
* Fixed some black screen issues by killing the background process on activity destruction.
* Fixed tile entities (chests, signs) not saving.
* Fixed a crash that occurred when hooking an exploding creeper.
* Bone meal can no longer be used on grass or ferns that have a block directly above them.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.11.0 build 5]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 5]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.11.0 build 5]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 5]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.11.0 alpha build 5]]
[[zh:携带版0.11.0.b5]]