{{Infobox version
|title=v0.11.0 alpha build 8
|image=Pocket Edition 0.11.0 build 8.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.11.0 alpha
|date=April 29, 2015
|versioncode=720110008 (armeabi-v7a-gb, 21)<br>
740110008 (armeabi-v7a-hc, 21)<br>
780110008 (x86, 21)
|clientdl=[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build8-armv7-hc.apk Original]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build8-armv7-gb.apk Gingerbread]<br>
[https://archive.org/download/MCPEAlpha/PE-a0.11.0-build8-x86.apk x86]
|prevparent=v0.10.5 alpha
|prev=v0.11.0 alpha build 7
|next=v0.11.0 alpha build 9
|nextparent=v0.11.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.11.0 alpha build 8''' is the eighth build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha|v0.11.0]].

== Additions ==

* Added [[magma cube]] spawn eggs
** The mob could previously only be spawned by hacking in the egg

== Changes ==

* Fishing rod now breaks the connection between rider and ride
* Changed default biome

== Fixes ==

'''[https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MCPE/fixforversion/15318 21 bugs fixed]'''

* Fixed crash when leaving server while riding.
* Fixed spawn-egg mobs falling through the world.
* Fixed players not dropping their inventory on death.
* Removed redundant dirty queue (increase performance).
* Fixed excess tallgrass in savanna biomes.
* Improved (re-)spawning, teleporting.

'''From released versions before 0.11.0'''
* {{bug|MCPE-6858}} - Duplicate of a consumable item in use shows up in Hotbar.
* {{bug|MCPE-6866}} - Naturally generated stationary lava doesn't update.
* {{bug|MCPE-7185}} - No fall damage for guests.
* {{bug|MCPE-8109}} - Beds display light level zero when covered by a block.
* {{bug|MCPE-8341}} - Falling red sand broken by a torch drops normal sand.
* {{bug|MCPE-8352}} - Naturally spawned lava has no blast resistance below a certain leve.l

'''From the 0.11.0 development versions'''
* {{bug|MCPE-8175}} - Sometimes entities (players, animals, monsters, and boats) start falling into the ground until they die or reach the void.
* {{bug|MCPE-8195}} - Boats hitting the shore would go into the land, then sink into the blocks until y=0.
* {{bug|MCPE-8221}} - Fishing does not work. 
* {{bug|MCPE-8258}} - The boat's GUI does not include the chat button.
* {{bug|MCPE-8282}} - All of the quartz block varieties are named the same "Block of Quartz."
* {{bug|MCPE-8284}} - Enderman Spawn Egg is named wrong.
* {{bug|MCPE-8302}} - Fishing doesn't work well on boats.
* {{bug|MCPE-8313}} - Hitting the "fish" button in multiplayer targets the nearest player and pulls said player towards the player with the rod.</onlyinclude>

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.11.0 build 8]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 8]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.11.0 build 8]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.11.0 alpha build 8]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.11.0 alpha build 8]]
[[zh:携带版0.11.0.b8]]