{{Infobox version
|title=v0.15.0 alpha build 2
|image=Pocket Edition 0.15.0 build 2.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|type=Build
|parent=v0.15.0 alpha
|date=June 8, 2016
|versioncode=840149902 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
841149902 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
870149902 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
871149902 (x86-jb, 22)
|prevparent=v0.14.3 alpha
|prev=v0.15.0 alpha build 1
|next=v0.15.0 alpha build 3
|nextparent=v0.15.1 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.15.0 alpha build 2'''<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004126112|title=MCPE Android Beta - 0.15 build 2}}</ref> is the second build version released for [[Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha|v0.15.0]], also known as the [[Friendly Update]].

== Changes ==
{{more images|Before and after of grass path|section=1}}
* [[Player]]s no longer spawn in tree [[leaves]].
* Restored GUI scale options.
* Tweaked [[grass path]] texture.
* Tweaked [[rose bush]] & [[peony]] textures.
* Fixed [[enchantment table]] UI close button.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed some crashes happening in specific situations.
* Walking past buttons no longer trigger suffocation overlay.
* Existing dye color not overwritten when mixing colors in a [[cauldron]].
* [[Torch]]es and [[redstone torch]]es fixed so that they don't drop when a block is placed or removed by it.
* Restrict hosting or joining games while on your mobile network (instead of being limited to wifi) to prevent huge bills on metered networks.  
* Riders no longer riding in circles if [[horse]] has been idle for a while.
* Fixed [[spider jockey]]s in [[multiplayer]].
* Fixes to feed button & feeding animals on touch devices.
* Bug fixes for [[sticky piston]]s.
* You can chat while sleeping in a [[bed]] again.
* Fixed graphics glitches while riding a horse.</onlyinclude>

==References==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.0 build 2]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha build 2]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.15.0 build 2]]
[[it:Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha build 2]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.15.0 alpha build 2]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.15.0 build 2 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.15.0.b2]]