{{Infobox version
|title=v1.1.5
|vernum=1.1.5
|build=421475
|image=Pocket Edition 1.1.5.png
|image2=Windows 10 Edition 1.1.5.png
|image3=
|edition=Pocket Edition
|internal=1.1.5.0<br> '''Windows 10''' 1.1.500.0
|date='''FireOS''' – August 1, 2017<br>'''iOS, Android, Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Gear VR, Fire TV''' – August 3, 2017<br>'''Apple TV''' – August 7, 2017
|prevparent=1.1.0
|prev=1.1.4
|next=1.1.7
|nextparentlink=Bedrock Edition 1.2.0
|nextparent=1.2.0
}}<onlyinclude>

'''1.1.5''' was an update for ''[[Pocket Edition]]'' and [[:Category:Bedrock_Edition|its derived editions]] that added new and updated existing Marketplace content as well as fixing several bugs.<ref>{{cite|url=https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360004168591|title=MCPE/WIN10/GEAR VR - 1.1.5}}</ref> This update is the last version for ''[[Pocket Edition]]'' (except for iOS, its last version would be 1.1.7) and all editions derived from it, which, aside from ''[[Apple TV Edition]]'', would all eventually be merged into {{el|be}}. It made it possible for additional content to be added to the Marketplace without the need for a full update.</onlyinclude>

This is also the final release of ''[[Pocket Edition]]'' that can be played on Android devices that do not own the game in the Google Play Store.

== Changes ==
=== General ===
'''[[Marketplace]]'''
* Updates to ''PureBDCraft''.
* All Marketplace-related modules were moved into a separate library.
** Future additional content to the Marketplace will not require new releases of ''Pocket Edition''.

== Fixes ==
* Fixed clock and compass textures becoming corrupted after reconnecting to the world with a resource pack.
* Fixed the texture of the tripwire string.
* Optimized the skin picker and all skins will now be displayed.</onlyinclude>

== Trivia ==
* Despite being the final update to ''Apple TV Edition'', it remained downloadable for another 413 days, and was finally discontinued on September 24, 2018.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|1.0}}

[[de:Pocket Edition 1.1.5]]
[[es:Pocket Edition 1.1.5]]
[[fr:Version portable 1.1.5]]
[[it:Pocket Edition 1.1.5]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition 1.1.5]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket 1.1.5]]
[[ru:1.1.5 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[uk:1.1.5 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版1.1.5]]