{{Infobox version
|title=v0.15.7
|edition=Pocket Edition
|internal=0.15.7.2</br> '''Windows 10''' 0.157.1.0
|image=PEAlpha0157.png
|image2=PEAlpha01572.png
|image3=Pocket Edition 0.15.7.png
|image4=Windows 10 Edition Beta 0.15.7.png
|date='''iOS, Android, Fire OS, Windows 10, Gear VR''' - August 31, 2016<br>'''Windows Phone''' - September 1, 2016
|versioncode='''Android''':<br>
840150702 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
841150702 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
870150702 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
871150702 (x86-jb, 22)
|prevparent=v0.15.0 alpha
|prev=v0.15.6 alpha
|next=v0.15.8 alpha
|nextparent=v0.16.0 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>
'''v0.15.7 alpha''' is a minor update to ''[[Pocket Edition]]'', ''[[Gear VR Edition]]'', and the ''[[Windows 10 Edition]]'' Beta released on August 31 and September 1, 2016 to resolve issues with Oculus Rift features on Windows 10, and to release the ''Natural'' texture pack.<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://www.mojang.com/2016/08/its-only-natural-changelog-0157-for-pocket-win-10/|title=It's only natural: changelog 0.15.7 for Pocket & Win 10|website=[[Mojang.com]]}}</ref>

== Additions ==
* ''Natural'' texture pack
** Including localizations

== Changes ==
* Improved some text rendering, spacing, and button sizes to accommodate above mentioned localization.
* Updated size and positions for logo and text for better comfort in Rift. (Win 10 only)
* You can now buy & extend Realms when playing on Win 10 in Rift mode.

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.15.7|otherissuescount=13
|;From 0.15.0 development versions
|15195|Redstone torches on piston power piston.
|;From 0.15.4
|16440|Lag, but not on the phone.
}}
'''Other'''
* Fixed Rift mode crashing on launch in some circumstances. (Win 10 only)
* Rowing a [[boat]] now works with the keyboard in Rift's full immersive mode. (Win 10 only)
* Mouse gets correctly captured when you put the Rift headset back on after taking it off. (Win 10 only)
* Fixed a crash when a player entered or created any [[world]].
* Fixed a crash for some players who weren’t signed in to Xbox Live.
* Fixed some issues with Rift mirror textures for distant [[water]] & [[tree]]s. (Win 10 only)
* The game no longer occasionally crashes when it is closed.
* Several fixes regarding removing the Rift headset. (Win 10 only)
* Pause screen fixed for trial mode. (Win 10 only)
* Virtual living room no longer affected by the player falling in the game in Rift. (Win 10 only)
* No more black shadow boxes appearing when jumping near hanging blocks in immersive mode on the Rift. (Win 10 only)
* Gaze cursor now re-centers correctly when looking up or down while dead in Rift. (Win 10 only)
* Fixed textures for non-enchanted potions.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.7]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.15.7 alpha]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.15.7]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.15.7 alpha]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.15.7 alpha]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.15.7 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.15.7]]