{{Infobox version
|title=v0.15.6
|image=Pocket Edition 0.15.6.png
|image2=Windows 10 Edition Beta 0.15.6.png
|edition=Pocket Edition
|internal=0.15.6.0</br> '''Windows 10''' 0.156.0.0
|date='''iOS, Android, Fire OS''' - August 10, 2016<br>'''Windows Phone, Windows 10, Gear VR''' - August 11, 2016
|versioncode='''Android''':<br>
840150600 (armeabi-v7a-ics, 22)<br>
841150600 (x86-ics, 22)<br>
870150600 (armeabi-v7a-jb, 22)<br>
871150600 (x86-jb, 22)
|prevparent=v0.15.0 alpha
|prev=v0.15.5 alpha
|prevlink=Windows 10 Edition Beta v0.15.5
|next=v0.15.7 alpha
|nextparent=v0.16.0 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>
'''v0.15.6''' is a minor update to [[Pocket Edition]], [[Gear VR Edition]], and the [[Windows 10 Edition]] Beta released on August 10-11, 2016 to enable a massive suite of VR-specific features and fix some of the bugs and crashes in [[Pocket Edition v0.15.4 alpha|v0.15.4]].<ref>{{cite|url=https://web.archive.org/web/0/http://www.mojang.com/2016/08/fixes-faqs-and-a-changelog-for-156/|title=Fixes, FAQs and a changelog for 0.15.6|website=[[Mojang.com]]}}</ref> While it wasn’t the last update to [[Pocket Edition v0.15.0 alpha|v0.15.0]], it was the last one before the builds of [[Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha|v0.16.0]] started.

== Additions ==
* Windows 10 Edition Beta now supports Oculus Rift.

== Changes ==
* Better keyboard and mouse support when Oculus Rift is enabled.
* Tweaked Windows 10 UI when in Oculus Rift mode for better usability.

== Fixes ==
{{Fixes|project=MCPE|fixedin=0.15.6|otherissuescount=5
|;From released versions before 0.15.0
|10056|Dismount is bound to wrong key
|11241|Moving fuel into the furnace draws units from the first stack touched instead of from the one you tap
|;From 0.15.1 
|16038|Missing Translations : achievement
|;From 0.15.2
|16168|Redstone dust are not breaking in moving piston
|;From 0.15.4
|16445|Zombies burn while it's raining during the day
}} 
'''Other'''
* Oculus platform launcher updated with localization handling fixes and correct Virtual Studio redistributable packages.
* Audio now plays through the user’s selected audio device.
* The {{key|C}} button on the keyboard can now switch between television mode and immersive mode.
* Fixed some localization fonts for all editions.
* Fixed a minor crash issue on Gear VR edition.</onlyinclude>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.6]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.15.6 alpha]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.15.6]]
[[it:Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.6]]
[[ja:Pocket Edition v0.15.6 alpha]]
[[pt:Edição Pocket v0.15.6 alpha]]
[[ru:Alpha 0.15.6 (Pocket Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.15.6]]