{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| group = Layer 1
| 1-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 1).png 
| group2 = Layer 2
| 2-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 2).png 
| group3 = Layer 3
| 3-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 3).png 
| group4 = Layer 4
| 4-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 4).png 
| group5 = Layer 5
| 5-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 5).png 
| group6 = Layer 6
| 6-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 6).png 
| group7 = Layer 7
| 7-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 7).png 
| group8 = Layer 8
| 8-1 = Poisonous Mashed Potato (layers 8).png
| renewable = Yes
| tool = shovel
| stackable = Yes (64)
| light = No
| heals = {{hunger|1}} / layer
| flammable = No
| transparent = Yes
| lavasusceptible = No
}}
'''Poisonous mashed potato''' is a joke [[block]] added in [[24w14potato]]. It can be layered like [[snow]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
Poisonous mashed potato can be mined with anything, but a [[shovel]] is the quickest. It always drops as an item, although no matter how many stacked layers the block has, it always drops one item.
{{breaking row|horizontal=1|Poisonous Mashed Potato|Shovel|hidecopper=1}}

The block also drops as an item when the block below it is destroyed, or if it's pushed by a [[piston]].

=== Post-generation ===
Poisonous mashed potatoes are created when an entity wearing [[poisonous pota-toes]] takes fall damage. When this happens, poisonous pota-toes are used up instantly, negating all damage, and a number of poisonous mashed potato blocks are spread around the spot that the entity fell onto. One of those blocks is always directly below the entity.

When a player falls into the void in the Potato Dimension, the credits will roll. When it ends or if the player skips it with the {{key|Esc}} key, the player will be returned to the spawn point with a [[poisonous pota-toes]] and launched into the sky at great speed before falling down. If the player lands on a block that can cause fall damage, the [[poisonous pota-toes]] is used and poisonous mashed potatoes are created as usual. This doubles as both a method to instantly return to your spawn point and to generate an infinite, low effort food source as well as [[poisonous pota-toes]] by landing on blocks that don't cause fall damage such as poisonous mashed potato and water.

== Usage ==
Poisonous mashed potato block doesn't have a collision box. It negates all fall damage and prevents the entity from jumping if it's inside of the block, like [[powder snow]]. It also gives the [[Sticky]] effect for 6 seconds when an entity touches it.

Poisonous mashed potato can be stacked together like snow, and then right clicked to consume one layer at a time. Each layer restore {{hunger|1}} hunger, and it's a easy infinite, low effort food source.

== Sounds ==
{{Sound table/Block/Slime block/JE}}

== Issues ==

{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Createable blocks]]

[[ja:Poisonous_Mashed_Potato]]
[[zh:毒马铃薯糊]]