{{Disambiguation}}
{{About|the features in the [[Minecraft franchise]]}}
'''Portal''' may refer to:

==''Minecraft''==
*{{EnvLink|Nether portal}} – The specific formation of obsidian blocks that create the structure used to travel to the Nether.
**{{BlockLink|id=nether-portal|Nether Portal (block)}} – The purple, transparent, vortex-animated block that fills in a nether portal.
**{{EnvLink|Ruined portal}} – The naturally-generating formations of obsidian.
*{{EnvLink|End portal}} – The specific formation of 12 end portal frame blocks that create the structure used to travel to the End.
**{{BlockLink|id=end-portal|End Portal (block)}} – The black, indestructible, starry-animated block that fills in an end portal.
**{{BlockLink|End Portal Frame}} – The virtually indestructible block found in sets of 12 in strongholds that must be activated by inserting an eye of ender.
*{{EnvLink|Exit portal}} – The exit portal from the End, framed in bedrock.
*{{EnvLink|End gateway}} – The portal to the outer islands of the End, framed in bedrock.
**{{BlockLink|id=end-gateway|End Gateway (block)}} – The full-cube black, indestructible, starry-animated block that fills in an end gateway portal.
=== Jokes ===
*{{EnvLink|Funky Portal}} — April fools portal, added in 20w14∞, made by throwing a book and quill into a nether portal.
**{{BlockLink|id=funky portal|Funky Portal (block)}} – The indestructible, transparent, vortex-animated block that fills in a funky portal.
*{{EnvLink|Other Portal}} - Another April fools portal, added in 23w13a_or_b, a reference to the Aether mod.
**{{BlockLink|id=other portal|Other Portal (block)}} - The indestructible, transparent, vortex-animated block that fills in an other portal.
* {{EnvLink|Ruined Portatol}}
** {{BlockLink|Pedestal}}
*** {{BlockLink|Potato Portal}} - Another April fools portal block, added in 24w14potato.

==''Minecraft Story Mode''==
*[[Story Mode:Overworld Portal#Sky City's World|Sky City Portal]]
*[[Story Mode:Overworld Portal#Spooky Mansion's World|Spooky Mansion Portal]]
*[[Story Mode:Portal Network|Portal Network]]
*[[Story Mode:Overworld Portal#Crown Mesa's World|Crown Mesa Portal]]
*[[Story Mode:Overworld Portal#Beacontown's World|Homeland Portal]]

== ''Minecraft Mini-Series'' ==
* {{EnvLink|Nether Portal}}
* [[Prismarine Portal]]
* [[Overworld Portal]]

==''Minecraft Legends''==
* {{LeStructureLink|Nether Portal}}
* {{LeEntityLink|Portal Guard}}

==''Minecraft Dungeons''==
*[[Dungeons:Nether Room|Nether Portal]]

==''A Minecraft Movie''==

*{{MovieLink|Earth Portal}} – The portal to the {{AMCM|Overworld}} from {{AMCM|Earth}}, similar in structure to a Nether Portal.
*{{MovieLink|id=ruined-portal|Obsidian gateway}} - The portal connecting the {{AMCM|Overworld}} to the {{AMCM|Nether}}.

==Other==
*{{LeMiscLink|Obsidian portal}}, a Nether portal appearing in ''[[Minecraft Legends: Return of the Piglins]]''

== See also ==
* [[Transportation]]

[[Category:Portals| ]]

[[de:Portal (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[es:Portal]]
[[fr:Portail]]
[[it:Portale]]
[[ja:ポータル]]
[[ko:차원문]]
[[nl:Minecraft portaal]]
[[pl:Portal (ujednoznacznienie)]]
[[pt:Portal]]
[[ru:Портал]]
[[uk:Портал]]
[[zh:传送门]]