{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| image = Potato Portal.webp
| renewable = Yes
| tool = None
| stackable = Yes (64)
| light = Yes (15)
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = No
| transparent = Yes
}}
A '''potato portal''' is a portal that allows players to access the [[Potato dimension]] in [[24w14potato]]. It works similarly to the [[nether portal]].

== Obtaining ==
Potato portals are unobtainable as an item without the use of the Creative inventory or commands. When kept in the inventory, the item goes visually outside the slot. They cannot be pushed or pulled by [[piston]]s.

=== Breaking ===
Potato portals are unbreakable in Survival mode.
{{Breaking row|horizontal=1|Potato Portal}}

They have a blast resistance of 0, meaning they are destroyed easily by explosions.

=== Post-generation ===
To create the potato portal, a [[poisonous potato]] must be {{control|used}} on a [[pedestal]] block. Pedestal must be placed in the Overworld or the Potato dimension, and block above the pedestal must be air or a replaceable block, like water or snow. 

Alternatively, potato portals can be created with the [[Potatiesh, Greatstaff of the Peasant|potato staff]] dropped by the [[mega spud]] boss mob.

== Usage ==
After standing inside the portal for 4 seconds, the player is transported to the [[Potato dimension]] if they were in any other dimension, or to the Overworld if they were in Potato dimension. Other entities are transported instantly. 

Unlike the Nether, coordinates and distances in the Potato are proportional to the Overworld in a 1:1 ratio. Player is transported to the same coordinates in the other dimension, or the closest empty space, if exact match is blocked off.

If a potato portal is placed in the Nether, it transports the player to the corresponding horizontal coordinates in Potato multiplied by 8. If it's placed in the End, coordinates are again 1:1.

== Sounds ==
=== Generic ===
{{Sound table/Block/Glass/JE}}

=== Unique ===
{{SoundTable
| type = java
| {{SoundLine
| sound =Plaguewhale Slab idle1.ogg
|sound2=Plaguewhale Slab idle2.ogg
|sound3=Plaguewhale Slab idle3.ogg
|sound4=Plaguewhale Slab idle4.ogg
|subtitle=Plaguewhale Slab zooms
|source=block
|description=When a potato portal is summoned on a [[pedestal]]
|id=entity.plaguewhale.ambient
|translationkey=subtitles.entity.plaguewhale.ambient
|volume=1.0
|pitch=1.0
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|subtitle=Plaguewhale Slab zooms
|source=block
|description=Randomly
|id=entity.plaguewhale.ambient
|translationkey=subtitles.entity.plaguewhale.ambient
|volume=0.5
|pitch=0.8-1.2
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|subtitle=Plaguewhale Slab zooms
|source=ambient
|description=After the player is teleported through a potato portal
|id=entity.plaguewhale.ambient
|translationkey=subtitles.entity.plaguewhale.ambient
|volume=0.25
|pitch=0.8-1.2
|distance=16}}
| {{SoundLine
|sound=Nether portal trigger.ogg
|subtitle=Portal noise intensifies
|source=ambient
|description=When the player enters a potato portal
|id=block.portal.trigger
|translationkey=subtitles.block.portal.trigger
|volume=0.25
|pitch=0.8-1.2
| distance = 16
}}
}}

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|spritetype=block
|displayname=Potato Portal
|nameid=potato_portal
|blocktags=portals
|showblocktags=1
|generatetranslationkeys=1
|foot=1}}

== Issues ==
Potato portal is an unsupported block due to being an [[Wikipedia:April Fools' Day|April Fools']] joke; therefore, related issues are not expected to be fixed.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Createable blocks]]
[[Category:Light sources]]

[[ja:Potato Portal]]
[[zh:马铃薯传送门]]
[[Category:Portals]]