{{outdated|Procedurally generated textures were removed and replaced by pre-rendered animations in [[Java Edition 1.5]], [[Pocket Edition v0.14.2 alpha]], and [[Xbox 360 Edition TU12]].}}

In older versions of ''Minecraft'', the textures for animated blocks were generated on-the-fly using certain algorithms, rather than being predefined image files.

In cases where these textures failed to generate or were intentionally disabled, [[Animation placeholder texture|dedicated placeholder textures would be used instead]].

== Blocks ==

=== Fire ===
{{/Fire}}

=== Nether portals ===
{{/Nether portals}}

=== Gears ===
{{/Gears}}

== Fluids ==
Fluid textures are generated via 3-layer non-deterministic [[wikipedia:Cellular automaton|cellular automata]], which modify the RGB and alpha values of the texture accordingly,<ref name="classicube">https://github.com/UnknownShadow200/ClassiCube/wiki/MInecraft-Classic-lava-animation-algorithm</ref> along with shifting of the texture to emulate flowing. Each layer is represented as an array of floats, each with 256 elements, corresponding to the 256 (16×16) texture pixels within the block.<ref name="classicube"/>

As can be seen when loading up a world with water or lava in view, the textures start as a solid color before the cellular automaton starts generating the texture.

Indexes which end up outside of the bounds of the texture reappear at the opposite respective side.<ref name="classicube"/>

For the purposes of explanation, the variables used have been named (arbitrarily) as attributes of a boiling pot of soup over a fire.<ref name="classicube"/> The first layer represents the <samp>flame_heat</samp> value (which can be either negative or positive), the second layer represents the <samp>pot_heat</samp> value and the third layer represents the <samp>soup_heat</samp> value.

Note that {{el|je}} and {{el|be}} used different pseudorandom generators for generating all random numbers in the game (Java Edition using a LCG whereas Pocket Edition used a MT19937), which includes the random numbers used for water and lava. Due to being random, however, this likely has negligible visual impact.

=== Water ===
{{/Water}}

=== Lava ===
{{/Lava}}

== Items ==

=== Clocks ===
{{/Clocks}}

=== Compasses ===
{{/Compasses}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox removed features}}

[[Category:Textures]]

[[pt:Geração de textura animada processual]]