{{disclaimer}}
{{Program
| title= MCreator
| image= MCreator.png
| author= 
| developers= Pylo and open-source contributors
| platform = {{OS|win|linux|mac}}
| minecraft version = {{verlink|Java Edition 1.21.8}}, {{verlink|Java Edition 1.21.1}}, {{verlink|Java Edition 1.20.1}}, and newer when released
| website = https://mcreator.net/
|developer=Pylo, open-source contributors|publisher=[https://www.pylo.co Pylo]|programming language=Java|version=2025.3|license=GPL-3.0 with exceptions|source available=https://github.com/MCreator/MCreator|forum=https://mcreator.net/forum|wiki=https://mcreator.net/wiki|size=~300MB|date=2012}}

MCreator is an open source software for creating Minecraft Java Edition mods, Minecraft Bedrock Edition Add-Ons, and data packs through a drag-and-drop visual programming interface.

It also contains other [[Tutorial:Programs and editors|tools]] needed to make mods such as pixel-style image editor, animation editors, and IDE-style code editor with a debugger.

==Overview==

MCreator offers visual tools for building Minecraft: Java Edition & Minecraft: Bedrock Edition modifications, plugins, data packs, resource packs, and add-ons. Whilst using the tool, MCreator automatically generates Java & JSON code using FreeMarker templates.

MCreator also offers a built-in procedure editor using the Blockly interface, which uses block-based code generation. It is designed in a way to be easy to use for users who have not programmed before and do not have technical knowledge of the game.

External plugins developed by the community can also be added to extend its functionalities. A Minecraft mod-sharing website CurseForge has a dedicated section for posting MCreator-made mods.

==Educational use==

MCreator has been adopted in educational settings due to its accessibility and user-friendly interface. It allows students and beginners in programming to create mods for Minecraft without requiring advanced coding skills. Its drag-and-drop interface, combined with block-based coding and built-in scripting capabilities, makes it ideal for teaching the fundamentals of logic, programming structures, and game design.

Educators often use MCreator to introduce younger audiences to software development concepts through Minecraft modding. The platform supports Java programming, enabling more advanced users to extend their creations with custom scripts. This dual approach—beginner-friendly visual programming and the option for more sophisticated coding—allows it to serve both novice and intermediate learners. Many STEM organizations have adopted MCreator for these reasons.

==MCreator Link==

MCreator Link is an open source API and a mod allowing users to make a mod using MCreator and connect it to a hardware device such as Arduino or Raspberry Pi using the Minecraft modding API, Minecraft Forge.

Arduino library allows connection between the game and the device via serial connection. A text protocol is used to exchange commands such as digital output pin control and reading digital pin states.

MCreator Link is also used by some electronic projects to simplify and understand how haptic feedback can be useful in video games.

==Mod of the Week==

MCreator's website runs a weekly mod contest called Mod of The Week, in which the mod that gets the most positive votes from the community is chosen weekly. The winning mod is placed on the MCreator start screen and is labeled with a special commemorative banner on its page.

[[Category:Custom software]]