{{See also|Projectile}}
{{for|other uses|Protection (disambiguation)}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = IV
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Helmet|link=Helmet}}{{ItemSprite|Chestplate|link=Chestplate}}{{ItemSprite|Leggings|link=Leggings}}{{ItemSprite|Boots|link=Boots}}{{ItemSprite|Turtle Shell|link=Turtle Shell}}
| weight = 5
| incompat =
* [[Blast Protection]]
* [[Fire Protection]]
* [[Protection]]
}}

'''Projectile Protection''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[armor]] that reduces damage received from [[arrow]]s, [[trident]]s and [[projectile|similar means]].

== Obtaining ==
Projectile Protection can be obtained from [[enchanting tables]], drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
Projectile Protection reduces damage from [[arrow]]s, thrown [[trident]]s, [[shulker bullet]]s, [[Llama_Spit|llama spit]], [[blaze fireball]]s, and [[wind charge]]s. It also reduces direct impact damage from [[ghast fireball]]s and [[Wither#Wither Skull|wither skull]]s, but not from their explosions. Despite being projectiles, damage from [[splash potions of harming]], [[dragon fireball]]s, [[firework rocket]]s, or [[sonic boom]]s are not considered to deal projectile damage, and are therefore unaffected by Projectile Protection.

The formula for damage reduction by projectiles is {{cd|''level'' × 8%}}, meaning for every additional level another 8% of the damage is absorbed. The highest level (Projectile Protection IV) absorbs 32% ({{cd|4 × 8%}}) of the damage inflicted by projectiles.

Unlike the [[Blast Protection]] and [[Fire Protection]] [[Enchanting|enchantments]], Projectile Protection offers no side effects outside of damage reduction.

Damage reduction from [[Protection]], [[Fire Protection]], [[Feather Falling]], [[Blast Protection]], and Projectile Protection stacks up to an upper limit cap of 80%. This upper limit can be reached with a total of 10 levels of Projectile Protection on the users armor, or with 12 levels of Protection combined with 4 levels of Projectile Protection.

== Incompatibilities ==
[[Protection]], [[Blast Protection]], [[Fire Protection]], and Projectile Protection are mutually exclusive.  Attempting to combine these enchantments with an [[anvil]] deletes the enchantment in the upgrade slot and replace it with the enchantment in the sacrifice slot.  However, if [[commands]] are used to force two or more of these enchantments on the same item, the effects stack. But when the total of the EPF provided by the protection enchantments surpasses 20, the rest of these enchantments will no longer directly reduce the damage.

== Data values ==

=== ID ===

{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=projectile_protection
|displayname=Projectile Protection
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=projectile_protection
|displayname=Projectile Protection
|id=4
|translationkey=enchantment.protect.projectile
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.0|dev=Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4|Added Projectile Protection.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w02a|Protection enchantments are no longer mutually exclusive.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w08a|Projectile Protection enchantment is now functional for horses when added to horse armor in creative mode.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14.3|dev=Pre-Release 2|Protection enchantments are mutually exclusive again.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added Projectile Protection}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Projectile Protection.}} 
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Projectile Protection.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list|-spawn}}

== Trivia ==
* Projectile Protection is also coded to reduce damage from [[snowball]]s and [[egg]]s, although they deal 0 damage in vanilla ''Minecraft''.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}

[[de:Schussschutz]]
[[es:Protección contra proyectiles]]
[[fr:Protection contre les projectiles]]
[[ja:飛び道具耐性]]
[[pt:Proteção contra Projéteis]]
[[th:ทนธนู]]
[[uk:Захист від снарядів]]
[[zh:弹射物保护]]