{{For}}
{{Infobox enchantment
| versionAdded = {{Verlink|Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3}}
| dateAdded = October 6, 2011
| maxlevel = IV
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Helmet|link=Helmet}}{{ItemSprite|Chestplate|link=Chestplate}}{{ItemSprite|Leggings|link=Leggings}}{{ItemSprite|Boots|link=Boots}}{{ItemSprite|Turtle Shell|link=Turtle Shell}}
| weight = 10
| id = protection
| incompat =
* [[Blast Protection]]
* [[Fire Protection]]
* [[Projectile Protection]]
}}
'''Protection''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[armor]] that adds bonus damage reduction.

== Obtaining ==
Protection can be obtained from [[enchanting table]]s, drops from mobs that have spawned in a [[raid]],{{only|bedrock}} books obtained by [[fishing]], [[monster room]] chests, librarian [[villager]]s, on [[armor]] dropped by various [[mob]]s, and non-village [[structure]] loot.

== Usage ==
Protection reduces the damage taken from all sources except for damage caused by [[hunger]], a [[warden]]'s sonic boom attack, the [[void]] or the {{cmd|kill}} command.  This enchantment is capable of reducing damage from sources that normally ignore the user's [[armor]] value, such as falling or magical damage from [[status effect]]s. 

The formula for damage reduction is {{cd|''level'' × 4%}} for each armor piece, for a maximum damage reduction of 64% if all armor pieces are enchanted with Protection IV.

Unlike the [[Blast Protection]] and [[Fire Protection]] enchantments, Protection offers no side effects outside of damage reduction.

Damage reduction from Protection, [[Fire Protection]], [[Feather Falling]], [[Blast Protection]], and [[Projectile Protection]] stacks up to an upper limit of 80% (see [[Armor#Enchantments|armor enchantments]]).  However, it is impossible to reach this cap with the base Protection enchantment alone as it is impossible to obtain Protection V in [[survival]] mode. The protection enchantment is applied after the armor's damage reduction.

If applied on wearable items that can't get the enchantment normally, such as a pair of [[elytra]] (using commands or an anvil in [[Creative]] mode), the enchantment works as usual.

== Incompatibilities ==
Protection, [[Blast Protection]], [[Fire Protection]], and [[Projectile Protection]] are mutually exclusive. Attempting to combine these enchantments with an [[anvil]] deletes the enchantment in the upgrade slot and replaces it with the enchantment in the sacrifice slot. However, if [[commands]] are used to force two or more of these enchantments on the same item, the effects stack. But when the total of the EPF provided by the protection enchantments surpasses 20, the rest of these enchantments will no longer directly reduce the damage.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=protection
|displayname=Protection
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=protection
|displayname=Protection
|id=0
|translationkey=enchantment.protect.all
|foot=1}}

== History ==
{{for|old protection calculations|Armor/Old}}

=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.0|dev=Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4|Added Protection. Its formula is {{cd|(4 × ''level'')%²}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.9|dev=15w36a|Protection enchantments have been nerfed: their bonuses are now linear instead of quadratic; changed from {{cd|(4 × ''level'')%²}} to {{cd|(4 × ''level'')%}}.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=19w02a|Protection enchantments are no longer mutually exclusive.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=19w08a|Protection enchantment is now functional for horses when added to horse armor in creative mode.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14.3|dev=Pre-Release 2|Protection enchantments are now once again mutually exclusive.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.19|dev=Pre-release 3|The [[warden]]'s sonic boom attacks now ignore this enchantment.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|pocket alpha}}
|{{HistoryLine||v0.12.1|dev=build 1|Added Protection. The formula is {{cd|(5 × ''level'')%}}}}
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.18.30|dev=Preview 1.18.30.21|Protection enchantments have been nerfed to match ''Java Edition''.
|The Protection enchantment now reduces damage from magic attacks such as [[Instant Damage]], [[Poison]] and [[Wither (effect)|Wither]].<ref>{{bug|MCPE-40651|||Fixed}}</ref>}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|console}}
|{{HistoryLine||xbox=TU7|xbone=CU1|ps3=1.00|psvita=1.00|ps4=1.00|wiiu=Patch 1|switch=1.0.1|Added Protection.}}
}}

=== ''New Nintendo 3DS Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|3ds}}
|{{HistoryLine||0.1.0|Added Protection.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{Issue list|-spawn|-Projectile|-Blast|-protect}}

== References ==
<references />

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}

[[de:Schutz]]
[[es:Protección]]
[[fr:Protection]]
[[ja:ダメージ軽減]]
[[pt:Proteção]]
[[th:การป้องกัน]]
[[zh:保护]]