{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| image = Quadruple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block.png
| renewable = Yes
| tool = Pickaxe
| stackable = Yes (64)
| light = No
| transparent = No
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = No
}}
A '''quadruple compressed poisonous potato block''' is a [[:Category:Compacted blocks|compacted block]] made of [[triple compressed poisonous potato block]]s in [[24w14potato]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
A quadruple compressed poisonous potato block can be broken using anything, but a [[pickaxe]] is the fastest. Quadruple compressed poisonous potato blocks always drop themselves when mined.
{{breaking row|Quadruple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block|Pickaxe|horizontal=1|hidecopper=1}}

=== Crafting ===
{{Crafting
|A1 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|A2 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|A3 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|B1 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|B2 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|B3 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|C1 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|C2 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|C3 = Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|Output=Quadruple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|ignoreusage=1
}}

== Usage ==
=== Crafting ingredient ===
{{Crafting
|shownames=1
|B2 = Quadruple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block
|Output=Triple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block,9
|ignoreusage=1
}}
== Sounds ==
{{Sound table/Block/Potone}}

== Trivia ==
*One quadruple compressed poisonous potato block is made up of 59,049 [[poisonous potato]]es (approximately 923 stacks of 64 or 34.2 [[shulker box]]es).
** On average (with a drop rate of 2%), 2,952,450 [[potato]]es have to be farmed to obtain all of the poisonous potatoes.
** A stack of these blocks would be made up of 3,779,136 poisonous potatoes, which could fill 2,187 single chests.
* The quadruple compressed poisonous potato block is the block with the most hardness in the game with 1,312.2.
** The highest hardness in the game prior to 24w14potato was 100.
** Unbreakable blocks use a hardness of -1.
* The hardness of the quadruple compressed poisonous potato block is 6,561 times more than the hardness of the [[poisonous potato block]] as 6,561 poisonous potato blocks make up one quadruple compressed poisonous potato block.
* This block has the longest name of any block in Minecraft's history at 43 characters.
** For comparison, the longest block name in any release version is the [[waxed weathered copper golem statue]] at 35 characters, and the longest block name in any non-joke development version is the [[waxed lightly weathered cut copper stairs]] at 41 characters.
* This block would weigh 7,127.1 tons if it existed in real life.

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Manufactured blocks]]
[[Category:Compacted blocks]]

[[ja:Quadruple_Compressed_Poisonous_Potato_Block]]