{{Infobox enchantment
| maxlevel = III
| primaryitems = {{ItemSprite|Crossbow|link=Crossbow}}
| weight = 5
}}

'''Quick Charge''' is an [[enchantment]] applied to [[crossbow]]s that increases reloading speed.

== Obtaining ==
Quick Charge I and Quick Charge II can be acquired using an [[enchanting table]] and by [[fishing]]. It can also be found in loot chests of [[monster room]]s and loot chests of library rooms in [[strongholds]]. Quick Charge III can be acquired through an [[anvil]] by merging two crossbows/books that both have Quick Charge II on them. Quick Charge III can also be acquired by [[trading]] with a librarian [[villager]]{{until|1=1.20.2 Villager Trade Rebalance}} <!-- How do you put until villager trade rebalance using this template?-->, or by finding it in a chest in an [[mineshaft]] or [[desert pyramid]].

== Usage ==
Quick Charge reduces the [[charge time]] of a [[crossbow]] by 0.25 seconds per level. The regular loading time is 1.25 seconds, making Quick Charge III result in a crossbow that requires just 0.5 seconds to load.

If [[commands]] are used to increase the enchantment level to level V,{{only|java}} the crossbow loads instantly when {{control|used}}. Beyond level V the crossbow does not load at all. If firework rockets or arrows used in the offhand are used, they are still fired even if beyond level V.

=== Specific cases ===
If Quick Charge is applied to a [[bow]] or [[trident]] by use of [[command]]s or an [[anvil]] in Creative, the enchantment does not function.

== Data values ==

=== ID ===

{{edition|java}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=quick_charge
|displayname=Quick Charge
|translationtype=enchantment
|foot=1}}

{{edition|bedrock}}:
{{ID table
|edition=bedrock
|shownumericids=1
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|nameid=quick_charge
|displayname=Quick Charge
|id=35
|translationkey=enchantment.crossbowQuickCharge
|foot=1}}

== History ==
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.14|dev=18w43a|Added the Quick Charge enchantment.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8.0|dev=beta 1.8.0.10|exp=Experimental Gameplay|Added the Quick Charge enchantment, which is currently behind [[Experimental Gameplay]].}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.10.0|dev=beta 1.10.0.3|The Quick Charge enchantment is available outside of Experimental Gameplay.}}
}}

=== Legacy Console Edition ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|ps4}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.90|Added the Quick Charge enchantment.}}
}}

== Issues ==
{{issue list|-wind|-charging}}

== Trivia ==
* Quick Charge, if granted in a [[crossbow]] through a command with the level higher than V (VI and above) makes the charge time of the crossbow become a ''negative'' value. When charging, the value decreases continuously until it extends over the {{cd|INT_MIN}} limit and returns back to the original value. Because of that, it would take approximately 69.4 years in real life to charge a Quick Charge VI crossbow.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox enchantments}}
{{Navbox combat|ranged}}

[[de:Schnellladen]]
[[es:Carga rápida]]
[[fr:Charge rapide]]
[[ja:高速装填]]
[[pt:Carga Rápida]]
[[th:ชาร์จเร็ว]]
[[zh:快速装填]]