{{Disambiguation}}

'''Rabbit''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft''==
*{{EntityLink|Rabbit}}, an uncommon passive mob.
*{{EntityLink|The Killer Bunny}}, a hostile rabbit.
*{{ItemLink|Raw Rabbit}}, a food item that restores {{hunger|3}}
*{{ItemLink|Cooked Rabbit}}, a food item that restores {{hunger|5}} 
* {{ItemLink|Rabbit Stew}}, a food item that restores {{hunger|10}}
*{{ItemLink|Rabbit Hide}}, an item used to craft leather.
*{{ItemLink|Rabbit's Foot}}, an item used in brewing and taming [[camel husk]]s.

=== Advancements ===
*[[Light as a Rabbit]], an [[advancement]] requiring you to walk on [[Powder Snow|powder snow]] using [[Boots|leather boots]].

=== Achievements ===
*[[Rabbit Season]], an [[achievement]] requiring you to cook and eat a rabbit.

=== Downloadable content ===
==== Add-ons ====
* {{EntityLink|Glow Rabbit}}

==== Skins ====
* {{SkinLink|Jade Rabbit}}, a [[skin]] found in the [[Mash-up pack#Chinese Mythology Edition|Chinese Mythology skin pack]].
* {{SkinLink|Moon Spirit Jade Rabbit}}, a [[skin]] found in the [[Mash-up pack#Chinese Mythology Edition|Chinese Mythology skin pack]].
* {{SkinLink|Battle & Beasts 2 Skin Pack#Skins|Rabbit}}, a [[skin]] found in the second [[Battle & Beasts 2 Skin Pack|Battle & Beasts skin pack]].

==''Minecraft Dungeons''==
*{{DuEntityLink|Desert Rabbit}}, a cosmetic [[MCD:Pet|pet]] mob made available in the [[MCD:Fauna Faire|Fauna Faire]] [[MCD:Seasonal Adventure|seasonal adventure]].
*{{DuEntityLink|Vested Rabbit}}, a cosmetic [[MCD:Pet|pet]] mob made available in the [[MCD:Fauna Faire|Fauna Faire]] [[MCD:Seasonal Adventure|seasonal adventure]].
*[[Dungeons:Bunny Hops|Bunny Hops]], [[MCD:Emote|emote]] made available in the [[MCD:Fauna Faire|Fauna Faire]] [[MCD:Seasonal Adventure|seasonal adventure]].
*[[MCD:Achievement|Adorable Explorer]], an achievement unlocked by completing the [[MCD:Lower Temple]] on [[MCD:Difficulty|Apocalypse difficulty]] with a desert rabbit companion.

==''Minecraft Earth''==
*{{EntityLink|Bold Striped Rabbit}}, a striped variety of rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Desert Rabbit}}, a rabbit from original Minecraft
*{{EntityLink|Jumbo Rabbit}}, a large, fat variety of rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Vested Rabbit|link=MCE:Vested Rabbit}}, a gray and white variety of rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Muddy Foot Rabbit}}, a brown and white variety of rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Harelequin Rabbit}}, a multicolored variety of rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Freckled Rabbit}}, a spotted variety of rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Hyper Rabbit}}, a hyper variety of rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Undead Rabbit|link=MCE:Undead Rabbit}}{{Conjecture|tag=1}}, a green zombie-like rabbit
*{{EntityLink|Violet Rabbit|link=MCE:Violet Rabbit}}, a violet variety of rabbit

== ''Minecraft Legends'' ==
* {{LeEntityLink|Rabbit}}

==Merchandise==
===''LEGO Minecraft''===
{{main|Lego Minecraft}}
*21144 The Farm Cottage, a set featuring a single brown kit.
*21145 The Skull Arena, a set featuring the Killer Bunny.
*21181 The Rabbit Ranch, a set featuring a black rabbit and brown kit.
*66646 Minecraft Bundle 2 in 1, a bundle featuring the Killer Bunny.

[[de:Kaninchen (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[fr:Lapin (homonymie)]]
[[ja:ウサギ (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[ko:토끼 (동음이의)]]
[[lzh:兔（辨異）]]
[[pt:Coelho (desambiguação)]]
[[uk:Кролик (значення)]]
[[zh:兔子（消歧义）]]