{{relevant category|Renewable resources}}
A '''renewable resource''' (as opposed to a [[non-renewable resource]], or finite resource) is a resource that can be obtained in unlimited quantities in [[Survival]] without exploiting glitches or using [[commands]]. While running completely out of resources is unlikely to be a factor in normal worlds due to the massive size of a ''Minecraft'' map, only some resources can be produced over and over without having to explore more terrain. Running out of resources can be a bigger issue on [[Superflat]] or [[Skyblock]] worlds, where resources are less plentiful, in PvP maps, where one would like to obtain resources without having to conquer more land, or simply if the accessible portion of the map is limited.

Most items dropped by [[animal]]s or [[monster]]s are renewable because more [[mob]]s of the same kind can spawn and be killed again for more loot. The exceptions are drops of enemies that spawn just once with the generation of specific structures, such as [[elder guardian]]s (only three spawn with each [[ocean monument]]). Drops of hostile mobs, with the exception of those obtainable by other means, are ''not'' renewable on Peaceful [[difficulty]] because the monsters do not spawn.

The renewable method to obtain a resource is not necessarily the easiest, fastest or safest, and may in some cases be highly impractical.

== Types of renewable resources ==
Resources in the list are split into three categories: "base", "compound", and "hybrid" renewables.

To get an unlimited supply of '''base renewables''', the player does not need an unlimited supply of anything else prior. For example, [[blaze rod]]s can be obtained in an arbitrary number from a single [[Nether fortress]], as [[blaze]]s spawn there naturally (even if [[monster spawner]]s are destroyed).

Methods of acquiring base renewables include:
* [[Drops]] from [[mob]]s that either spawn naturally, or can be spawned without consuming any resources (e.g. [[breeze]]s, [[shulker]]s);
* Gifts from [[cat]]s;
* [[Fishing]];
* Growing things on various types of soil-like blocks (without the use of bone meal);
* Blocks forming when [[liquid]]s meet with each other or another block;
* Rewards from normal [[trial spawner]]s.
Few other special cases exist as well.

To get an unlimited supply of '''compound renewables''', the player ''does'' need an unlimited supply of another resource. For example, [[bell]]s can be obtained in an arbitrary number through trading, but a renewable supply of [[emerald]]s is needed first.

Methods of acquiring compound renewables include:
* Drops from mobs that require consuming a resource to spawn (e.g. [[evoker]]s, [[wither]]s);
* [[Trading]] with [[wandering trader]]s and [[villager]]s;
* Gifts from villagers when the player has [[Hero of the Village]] effect;{{only|JE}}
* Growing things with [[bone meal]];
* [[Bartering]] with [[piglin]]s;
* Rewards from [[ominous trial spawner]]s;
* [[Crafting]] and [[smelting]].
Few other special cases exist as well.

From this category, a sub-category was created, listing the resources that can be obtained only from crafting and smelting (some of the craftable blocks can be also created in a [[stonecutter]]). This includes most [[slab]]s, [[stairs]], [[wall]]s, "chiseled" and "polished" variants of blocks, and so on. For a craftable resource to be renewable, all of its ingredients must be renewable.

'''Hybrid renewables''' can be obtained in at least one of both types of methods. For example, [[arrow]]s can be obtained as base renewables from killing skeletons, or as compound renewables from crafting.

== List of resources ==
{{Hatnote|1=You may edit the contents of this section [[Special:EditPage/List of renewable resources|here]].}}
{{:List of renewable resources}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox gameplay}}

[[Category:Renewable resources| ]]

[[de:Erneuerbare Ressourcen]]
[[es:Recurso renovable]]
[[fr:Ressources renouvelables]]
[[it:Risorsa rinnovabile]]
[[ja:再生可能資源]]
[[ko:재생 가능한 자원]]
[[nl:Hernieuwbare bron]]
[[pt:Recurso renovável]]
[[ru:Возобновляемые ресурсы]]
[[th:ทรัพยากรที่สร้างทดแทนใหม่ได้]]
[[uk:Поновлювані ресурси]]
[[zh:可再生资源]]