{{About|the April Fools' block|the source of [[resin brick]]s|Resin Clump}}
{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| image = Resin Ore.png
| renewable = No
| tool = Hoe
| stackable = Yes (64)
| transparent = No
| light = Yes (3)
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = No
}}

'''Resin ore''' is a type of [[ore]] found in the [[Potato dimension]] in [[24w14potato]]. 

Breaking resin ore drops one [[toxic resin]], unless mined with a [[Silk Touch]] hoe. Toxic resin obtained from resin ore always has "air bubbles" impurities, and either "abysmal", "clouded", or "eventual" clarity. Resin ore is affected by [[Fortune]] enchantment, dropping an average of 1.33 toxic resins with level I, 1.75 toxic resins with level II, and 2.2 toxic resins with level III. All resins dropped from a single ore block always are of the same clarity.

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
Resin ore must be mined with a [[hoe]], otherwise it drops nothing.

Breaking resin ore drops one [[toxic resin]], unless mined with a [[Silk Touch]] hoe. Toxic resin obtained from resin ore always has "air bubbles" impurities, and either "abysmal", "clouded", or "eventual" clarity. Resin ore is affected by [[Fortune]] enchantment, dropping an average of 1.33 toxic resins with level I, 1.75 toxic resins with level II, and 2.2 toxic resins with level III. All resins dropped from a single ore block always are of the same clarity.
{{Breaking row|Resin Ore|horizontal=1|Hoe|Wood|hidecopper=1}}

=== Natural generation ===
Resin ore generates in patches throughout the Potato dimension in place of [[potone]].

== Sounds ==
{{Sound table/Block/Potone}}

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Natural blocks]]
[[Category:Light sources]]
[[Category:Ore]]

[[ja:Resin_Ore]]
[[zh:树脂矿石]]