{{About||the game requirements|Hardware requirements}}
{{exclusive|java}}
This page lists the '''server requirements''' of the current {{el|je}} version, {{ver|java}}.
== Server installation and configuration ==

For a full tutorial on setting up a Minecraft server, please read the [[Tutorial:Setting up a Java Edition server|installation and configuration guide]].

== Server requirements ==
Requirements may change depending on the server software (like the OS), such as using [[Bukkit]] and/or [[mods]].

* A Java runtime (JRE), version 8 or higher. JDK contains JRE, so it works too. '''As of version 1.17, JRE version 16 is required. For version 1.18, JRE version 17 is required. For version 1.20.5, JRE version 21 is required.'''
* At least 1 GB of RAM allocated for the server to run ({{code|-Xmn 128M -Xmx 1G}}).
** If you are using Windows or a desktop-based Linux distribution, you should have at least 1 GB of additional physical RAM in the computer, so the graphics on the desktop don't become laggy. It is difficult to determine how much RAM is needed because there are many factors to consider such as the number of players on your server and how they interact with the game world. While a player object requires about 50 to 100 MB of RAM, the server often has to allocate much more memory per player for many different reasons.<ref>{{citation |url=https://www.ionos.com/digitalguide/server/know-how/setting-up-a-minecraft-server-with-a-dedicated-server/ |title=How to host a Minecraft server |website=IONOS |date=6 March 2023}}</ref>
** Depending on the specific java version, you may be able to set a "soft max RAM" amount for the server JAR program. The JDK tries to keep memory usage below the soft max, but allows it to go above it to reach {{code|-Xmx}} if needed. Try {{code|1=-Xmn 128M -XX:SoftMaxHeapSize=1G -Xmx 2G}}.
* A CPU with good single-core performance. The server (as of 1.14) does use additional cores for other operations, but typically three cores are used at most.
** Hyperthreading (HT) or simultaneous multithreading (SMT), i.e. a CPU providing 2 "threads" or "logical cores" for each physical core, does not seem to benefit Minecraft much. On the other hand, it does not really hurt either, and having the setting on does allow your CPU to do some extra work on the side. Just don't worry about it.
** The situation with [[mcservers:Java Edition server software|third-party software]] is that while additional work (from plugins) do use additional cores, the core world mechanics (ticking, etc.) largely remain the same. Attempts to make the core mechanics multithreaded include [https://github.com/Akarin-project/Akarin Akarin] and [https://papermc.io/software/folia Folia], but do be warned this is complex work and things get buggy easily.

Here is a simple recommendation to help you get started and/or help decide which hosting option is best for you:

=== Running a LAN Party type Server ''(since 1.11.2)'' ===
: <u>Note that these requirements are for the '''server only'''. You need to allocate more resources to the OS!</u>
: Also note that these suggestion presume default settings in server.conf - i.e., a Draw Distance no higher than 10, and is also based on a new world; the bigger the world gets, especially if there's advanced [[redstone]] circuitry at work, the requirements - especially the RAM, or in the case of lots of redstone or mobs (in e.g. grinders), the CPU - increase significantly (to the point where a major world with several camps, redstone machinery, grinders, etc. can easily more than double the requirements).

Be sure to have at least a low-ping internet connection, such as DSL or cable. 

{|class="wikitable sortable collapsible" data-description="System requirements"
! class="unsortable" width="75" | Requirements
! class="unsortable" width="25" | Players
! class="unsortable" width="150" | CPU
! class="unsortable" width="65" | RAM
! class="unsortable" width="390" | Storage
|-
! Minimum
| align="center"| 1-4 
| align="center"| Intel Core 2 Duo or AMD Athlon 64 x2
| align="center"| 1GB
| align="center"| At least 150MB for world saves
|-
! Recommended
| align="center"| 5-10
| align="center"| Intel Core 2 Duo or AMD Athlon 64 x2
| align="center"| 2GB
| align="center"| At least 200MB for world saves
|-
! Best
| align="center"| 10+
| align="center" | Intel Core i5-4690 or AMD Ryzen 5 1600
| align="center"| 4GB
| align="center"| At least 200MB SSD 
|}

=== Running a Dedicated type Server ===
Please see '''[[Server/Requirements/Dedicated|Dedicated Server Requirements]]''' for more information.

=== Running a Server-grade Server ===
Please see '''[[Server/Requirements/Server|Server-Grade Server Requirements]]''' for more information.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Java Edition technical|general}}

[[Category:Server]]

[[es:Servidor/Requisitos]]
[[ja:サーバー/要件]]
[[nl:Server/Vereisten]]
[[pl:Serwer/Wymagania]]
[[pt:Servidor/Requisitos]]
[[zh:服务器/需求]]