{{for|the effect with the same name|Shazboots! (effect)}}
{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox item
| image=Chainmail Boots.png
| armor = 1
| armortoughness = 0
| durability = 195
| enchantability = 12
| knockbackresistance = 0
| renewable = Yes
| stackable = No
| invimage = Shazboots!
}}
'''Shazboots!''' are a joke item added in [[25w14craftmine]]. They appear identical to [[chainmail boots]] when worn, despite having a unique item texture.

== Obtaining ==
Shazboots! are unlocked when the player opens the [[player unlock]] tab: Shazboots!, but this only works in the mine worlds.

== Usage ==
Shazboots! can be worn by the player and gives the player the [[Shazboots! (effect)|Shazboots!]] status effect, which will boost the player while holding the space button on the keyboard. Walking on [[soul sand]] will prevent the boost from charging up. Fall damage is negated while worn by the player.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{ID table
|edition=java
|showforms=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Shazboots!
|spritetype=item
|form=item
|nameid=shazboots
|foot=1}}

== Trivia ==
* The name and description are a reference to the 2001 video game ''{{w|Tribes 2}}''.
** "Skiing" refers to a game mechanic in ''Tribes 2'' where one can hold the jump key to slide downhill and launch uphill at great speeds
** "Shazbot" is a curse word euphemism originally from the show ''{{w|Mork & Mindy}}'', later referenced throughout the ''{{w|Starsiege: Tribes}}'' series.
** VGS is the series of keys to say "Shazbot!" in chat through the game's voice command menu.

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox armor}}{{Navbox items|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|25w14craftmine}}

[[Category:Joke items]]

[[ja:Shazboots!]]
[[zh:Shazboots!]]