{{Work in progress}}{{Infobox event
| type = E-sports competition
| began = ~3 years
| location = {{AreaLink|Southwest Regional Tech Fair|Southwest Regional <br>Tech Fair}}
| participants = {{CharacterLink|Jett Warner}}
| first_appearance = ''[[Minecraft: The Tournament]]''
}}

The '''Southwest Regional Tech Fair's Minecraft Tournament''' is an annual esports competition hosted by [[Southwest Regional Tech Fair]]. Running for at least four years, the contest is dedicated to the video game ''[[Minecraft]]''. Winners are gifted a cash prize, intended to be donated to an organization of choice.

== Layout ==
{{Empty section}}

== Culture ==
{{Expand section}}The tournament is a varied competition set within ''Minecraft'', with the rules and focus fluctuating every year. Some iterations focus on [[Survival mode]], while others use [[Creative]].

== Biography ==
{{Expand section}}
Approximately three years prior to the events of [[The Tournament|''The Tournament'']], the tournament was established.

On a whim, passionate ''Minecraft'' player [[Jett Warner]] decided to enlist in the contest. It had already been considered a big deal by his teacher [[Mr. Alarez]], who was confident he could stand a chance. To convince him, he enlisted Jett's [[Dri Warner|sister]] to "harass [him]" until he handed over some of his gameplay. After submitting, he quickly forgot about it, but as fate would have it managed to secure a place months later. Once he finds out he decided to begin researching the tournament, and was surprised to find it not promoted on social media.

== Quotes ==
{{Quote|Dear Jontre Warner, The Fourth Annual Southwest Regional Tech Fair has finished evaluating all entries. The review was difficult, and the selection committee is delighted to offer our congratulations for you reaching the final round of consideration.  Your Minecraft gameplay was impressive, and we were absolutely blown away by your essay about gamifying your neighborhood cleanup events. The selection found it quite thought-provoking. We've identified you as a young leader of the future and invite you to—|Excerpt from an email sent to Jett}}

== See also ==

* {{MovieLink|World Video Game Championship}}, a similar competition in {{AMCM}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox meta novels|the tournament}}
[[Category:Book locations]]
[[Category:Historical events]]
[[Category:Players]]