{{needs update|inaccurate=1|Outdated information from before [[Texture Update]].}}

The '''south-east rule''', also known as the '''Z-X rule''', is an unintentional mechanic wherein various effects occur based on the [[wikipedia:Cardinal direction|cardinal directions]], specifically in a south-east variant.

== Effects ==
The following list contains effects that happen, relating to the south, east, or south-east cardinal directions, including:

* [[Rail]]s curve south or east when they are initially placed at a "T" intersection or a "+" intersection. They also curve away from the south or east when powered.
** An exception to this is if there is an intersection on a downhill rail track, the minecart continues on the downhill track, even if the south-east rule applies. (see [[Rail#Downhill rule]])
* Any mobs that are spawned by [[spawn egg]]s, {{cmd|summon}}, [[monster spawner]]s, the player, or by [[breeding]], always appear to be facing the southern direction initially.
* [[Tutorial:TNT cannons|TNT cannons]] tend to fire farther when facing east or south.
* Many bugs cause problems relating to south and east, such as [[villager]]s trying to cram into the house that is mostly in the southern-eastern area of the village.
* When the player is exactly inside the middle of a block, they are pushed out of the block north-east.
* 2×2 trees are unable to grow, if north, west or northwest diagonal block is occupied up to the final height of the tree.
* When the player first spawns into the world, they spawn facing south.

== Model and texture orientation ==
Blocks can be split into 3 categories based on the model behavior.
* Always the same way (only has 1 orientation, no other facing version exists); for example, cobblestone, planks, bookshelf, ores, etc.
* The texture orientation is based on the location of the block, not dependent on the placing direction (dirt, grass blocks)
* Based on the mode of placing, it uses a certain predictable orientation/block state (glazed terracotta, furnace, piston, logs)

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java beta}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.6|dev=Test Build 3|Prevented [[dispenser]]s from firing [[arrow]]s, [[egg]]s, or [[snowball]]s through a solid block right next to the dispenser if the dispenser is facing west or south. At this time, this was known as the south-west rule, as at the time the positive X coordinate was west. This meant that any effects that now follow the south-east rule, followed the south-west rule at the time.}}
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.0.0|dev=Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4|Changed the south-west rule to the south-east rule, as positive X was changed from west to east.}}
}}

== See also ==
* [[Coordinates]]
* [[Compass]]
* [[Debug screen]]
* [[Rotation]]

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox gameplay}}
[[pl:Zasada południowego wschodu]]

[[Category:Game terms]]

[[fr:Règle du sud-est]]
[[ja:東南の規則]]
[[lzh:東南法則]]
[[pt:Regra do sudeste]]
[[ru:Юго-восточное правило]]
[[zh:东南规则]]