{{exclusive|java}}
'''Spawn protection''' prevents players from building around [[world spawn]], undoing any attempts at placing or breaking [[block]]s.

== Description ==
Spawn protection only exists in dedicated servers and does not apply in singleplayer worlds or LAN worlds. Spawn protection only applies in the [[Overworld]], since the world spawn is always in the Overworld.

The <code>spawn-protection</code> field in <samp>[[server.properties]]</samp> determines the side length of the square spawn protection area as 2''x''+1. Setting this to 0 or a negative value disables the spawn protection. A value of 1 protects a 3×3 square centered on the spawn point, 2 protects 5×5, 3 protects 7×7, etc. The area that it protects is (spawn-protection×2 + 1)×(spawn-protection×2 + 1).

Operators (in the [[ops.json]]) can bypass the spawn protection.

If there are no operators at all in the server, spawn protection does not apply.

There are several indirect <!--indirect, using commands and cheats--> ways to bypass spawn protection, namely activating pistons, dispensers, explosives and using mob griefing.

== History ==
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java beta}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.3<!-- Beta 1.8 or earlier -->|Added spawn protection. The radius is always 16 (protecting a 33×33 area).}}
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.4.2|dev=12w40a|Added <code>spawn-protection</code> to [[server.properties]].
|Spawn protection no longer applies if the server does not have any ops.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.5|dev=13w05a|Setting <code>spawn-protection</code> to 0 now disables spawn protection, instead of protecting a 1×1 area.<ref>{{bug|MC-666||Spawn Protection not working properly|Fixed}}</ref>}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.8|dev=14w17a|Added the [[world border]]. It is stated that terrain outside of this border should be treated the same as spawn protection, although the implementation is flawed.}}
}}

==Issues==
{{issue list}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox gameplay}}

[[Category:Server]]

[[fr:Zone protégée]]
[[ja:リスポーン地点の保護]]
[[pt:Proteção de geração]]
[[ru:Защита спауна]]
[[zh:出生点保护]]