{{Stub}}{{Infobox video|type=Musical animation|date=Twitter: May 4, 2023<br>Vimeo: May 10, 2023|length=0:37|production=[[Spark Universe]]|image=Squidward reacts.png}}
'''''SpongeBob SquarePants'' – Musical''' is an animated short based off of the [[SpongeBob SquarePants|''SpongeBob SquarePants'']] map.

== Summary ==
Instead of a narrative, the video is a series of animated vignettes of various characters, played and repeated in succession to form a song. The video begins on Patrick, presumably thinking, before banging a jar of mayonnaise on a barrel and the wall of the Krusty Krab. SpongeBob flips a krabby patty while on duty alongside Patrick's chatter, annoying Squidward in the room over. Bubble Bass eats a large pile of Krabby Patties, as the cash register opens. Mr. Krabs pushes a wheelbarrow of money outside the establishment.

Bubble Buddy runs around trying to catch a jellyfish in front of Squidward's house. Gary taps his eyes together, Karen pushes Plankton into the air, and Sandy launches a rocket outside her treedome. [[SpongeBob SquarePants|Goober]] drives around on a large rock, and squishes two incidentals, horrifying Mrs. Puff. Mermaid Man and Barnacle Boy watch TV together with Old Man Walker. Pearl fires a cannon with the Flying Dutchman. Painty the Pirate chants "ohhhh" from the show's theme song. 

=== Characters ===
{{columns-list|colwidth=20em|
* {{SkinLink|link=w:Mermaid Man and Barnacle Boy|Barnacle Boy}}
* {{SkinLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Bubble_Bass|Bubble Bass}}
* {{SkinLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Bubble_Buddy_(character)|Bubble Buddy}}
* {{SkinLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Flying_Dutchman|Flying Dutchman}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Gary_the_Snail|Gary the Snail}}
* {{SkinLink|Goober}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Incidental_41|Incidental 41}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Incidental_42|Incidental 42}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Incidental_48|Incidental 48}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Incidental_91|Incidental 91}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Jellyfish|Jellyfish}}
* {{SkinLink|Karen}}
* {{SkinLink|link=w:Mermaid Man and Barnacle Boy|Mermaid Man}}
* {{SkinLink|Mrs. Puff}}
* {{SkinLink|Mr. Krabs}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Old_Man_Walker |Old Man Walker}}
* {{CharacterLink|link=https://spongebob.fandom.com/wiki/Painty_the_Pirate|Painty the Pirate}}
* {{SkinLink|Patrick Star}}
* {{SkinLink|Pearl Krabs}}
* {{SkinLink|Plankton}}
* {{SkinLink|Sandy Cheeks}}
* {{SkinLink|link=SpongeBob SquarePants#Background|SpongeBob Squarepants}}
* {{CharacterLink|Squidward Tentacles}}
}}

== Videos ==
{{Vimeo|825408379}}
{{Vimeo|757935536}}

== Trivia ==
* Due to reused audio from the ''SpongeBob SquarePants'' theme, {{Wikipedia|Tom Kenny}} is inadvertently the only actor to reprise their regular role, as Painty the Pirate. Everyone else is played by a noticeable soundalike.<ref>{{YouTube link|r9L4AseD-aA|"SpongeBob SquarePants" Theme Song (NEW HD) {{!}} Episode Opening Credits {{!}} Nick Animation|Nicktoons|August 11, 2016}}</ref>
* Pearl and the Flying Dutchman appearing together is a reference to them being added to the map in the same update.

== References ==
<references />
== Navigation ==
{{Navbox cinematics}}
[[Category:Music videos]]
[[Category:Collaborations]]
[[Category:Spark Universe]]
[[Category:DLC promotions]]
[[Category:SpongeBob SquarePants]]