{{Distinguish|Spider Jockey}}
{{For||Strider (disambiguation)|Jockey (disambiguation)}}
{{Infobox entity
| title = Strider Jockey
| group = Zombified Piglin
| 1-1 = Strider Jockey.png
| group2 = Baby Strider
| 2-1 = Baby Strider riding Strider.png
| health = '''Zombified Piglin:'''&nbsp;{{hp|20}}<br>'''Strider:'''&nbsp;{{hp|20|mob=1}}
| behavior = '''Zombified Piglin:''' Neutral <br> '''Baby Strider:''' Passive
| spawn = See [[#Spawning|§ Spawning]]
| equipment = '''Zombified Piglin:'''{{drop|Item|Warped Fungus on a Stick}}<br>'''Strider:''' {{drop|Item|Saddle}}
}}
A '''strider jockey''' is the appearance of a saddled [[strider]] being ridden by a [[zombified piglin]].

Strider jockeys can also spawn as baby striders riding adult striders. When this happens, the adult strider is never saddled.

== Spawning ==
=== Zombified piglin strider jockey ===
Adult striders have a {{frac|1|30}} chance to spawn being [[riding|ridden]] by a zombified piglin. The strider spawns wearing a [[saddle]], while the zombified piglin spawns with a [[warped fungus on a stick]] in its hand, replacing the usual [[golden sword]] or [[golden spear|spear]]. The zombified piglin can also spawn as a baby.{{only|JE|short=1}}

{{IN|java}} on [[Halloween]], there is a 22.5% chance for the zombified piglin to spawn wearing a [[carved pumpkin]] on its head, and a 2.5% chance to spawn wearing a [[jack o'lantern]].

=== Baby strider jockey ===
Adult striders have a {{frac|1|10}} chance to spawn being ridden by a baby strider.

== Drops ==
The [[zombified piglin]] and [[strider]] each drop mostly the same items they normally would (see {{Slink|Zombified Piglin|Drops}} and {{Slink|Strider|Drops}}). 

There are two (three in [[Bedrock Edition]]) notable differences:
* Instead of a golden sword, the zombified piglin has a chance to drop the [[warped fungus on a stick]] it is holding with random durability, with an 8.5% chance {{in|java}} and a 25% chance {{in|bedrock}}. 
* The strider will always drop its worn [[saddle]] when killed.
* In {{BE}}, the zombified piglin rider drops no experience when killed.

== Behavior ==
{{main|Riding}}
=== Zombified piglin ===
The movement of the strider jockey is controlled by the zombified piglin. Because of the strider, the jockey will move faster while in lava and slower when on land.

Like zombified piglins, these strider jockeys are neutral towards the player and other mobs. They are angered when the rider or any nearby zombified piglin is attacked, resulting in the strider jockey attacking the aggressor via melee. They also pathfind towards and stomp on [[turtle egg]]s.

Unlike players, the zombified piglin cannot “use” the warped fungus on a stick and force the strider to move faster.

When the rider is killed, the strider becomes [[passive]]. Additionally, the strider can immediately be ridden by the player due to spawning with a [[saddle]] already equipped. The saddle is dropped upon the strider's death.

The strider cannot be tempted by a [[warped fungus]] or [[warped fungus on a stick]] while being ridden by the zombified piglin{{only|JE|short=1}}, but it can be [[leash]]ed. The strider’s saddle cannot be removed using [[shears]] while the zombified piglin is riding it.

=== Baby strider ===
The baby strider can still be fed and grow up, and it does not dismount the adult strider when it does grow up. The top adult strider can be ridden.

== History ==
<!--Only state history that is relevant to the strider jockey, for history specific to the strider or zombified piglin state it on its respective page-->
=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|java}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.16|dev=20w13a|Added strider jockeys.}}
|{{HistoryLine|||dev=20w18a|Striders can no longer spawn in stacks of 3 or higher; only an adult and baby strider or an adult strider and a [[zombified piglin]].|Zombified piglins that spawn riding striders no longer despawn.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.16.2|dev=pre1|[[Zombified piglin]]s now hold a [[warped fungus on a stick]] when spawned as a strider jockey.}}
}}

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{HistoryTable
|{{HistoryLine|bedrock}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.16.0|dev=beta 1.16.0.57|Added strider jockeys.}}
|{{HistoryLine||1.16.100|dev=beta 1.16.100.54|Zombified piglins now hold a warped fungus on a stick when spawned as a strider jockey.}}
}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox entities|mobs}}

[[Category:Jockeys]]
[[Category:Nether mobs]]
[[Category:Animal mobs]]
[[Category:Neutral mobs]]

[[ja:ストライダージョッキー]]
[[pt:Jockey de Lavagante]]
[[Category:Monster mobs]]