** {{Nbt|list|layers}}: (Required, but can be empty) Layer settings. This list is interpreted from top to bottom, starting at world bottom.
*** {{Nbt|compound}}: A superflat layer.
**** {{Nbt|int|height}}: The height of this layer. Value between 0 and 4064 (both inclusive) .
**** {{Nbt|string|block}}: (optional, defaults to minecraft:air) The block ID.
** {{Nbt|string|biome}}: (optional, defaults to plains) The ID of the single biome of the world.<!--Setting to a object of biome may crash the game-->
** {{Nbt|boolean|lakes}}: (optional, defaults to false) Whether or not to generate lava lakes. If set to true, then lava lakes (lake_lava_underground and lake_lava_surface) generate often even in biomes where lakes don't normally generate.
** {{Nbt|boolean|features}}: (optional, defaults to false) Whether or not to generate biome-specific placed features. Note that the placed features in the step UNDERGROUND_STRUCTURES and SURFACE_STRUCTURES never generates. If the biome is not minecraft:void, but {{Nbt|list|layers}} is empty or has only air, no placed feature generates. 
** {{Nbt|string}}{{nbt|list|structure_overrides}}: (optional, defaults to all the structure sets) List of structure sets to use. Can be a ID of structure set or a structure set tag, or a list of structure set IDs.
[[Category:Java Edition]]
[[Category:Data packs]]
<noinclude>

[[fr:Monde plat/Paramètres]]
[[ja:カスタムディメンション/flat generator settings]]
[[pt:Mundo plano/Configurações]]
[[uk:Надплаский/Параметри]]
[[zh:维度数据格式/flat generator settings]]
</noinclude>