#REDIRECT [[Minecraft Wiki:Projects/DLC/Super Mario Mash-up]]
{{Merge|Minecraft_Wiki:Projects/DLC/Super_Mario_Mash-up|reason=A draft for this page already exists as part of Project DLC.}}
{{exclusive|console|bedrock|New Nintendo 3DS}}
{{Infobox mash-up
|title=''Super Mario''
|image=Super Mario Mash-up.jpg
|date=
'''Wii U:''' May 17, 2016 <br />
'''3DS:''' June 5, 2018 <br />
'''Nintendo Switch:''' June 21, 2018 <br />
|price=Free
|feature=
UI Texture <br />
World Template <br />
Sounds <br />
Item Texture <br />
Block Texture <br />
Mob Texture <br />
Skin pack}}
The '''''Super Mario'' Mash-Up''' (also known as '''Minecraft:''' '''Super''' '''Mario''' '''Edition''') is a free [[mash-up pack|mash-up]] based on the Super Mario franchise developed and owned by [[w:Nintendo|Nintendo]]  exclusively available for the Nintendo versions of [[Minecraft]]. It was initially released in May 17th, 2016 for [[Wii U Edition|Minecraft: Wii U Edition]] which would include a new pre-built world template, retextured [[Mob|mobs]], retextured [[Block|blocks]], retextured [[Item|items]], and a [[skin pack]], containing 40 [[Skin|skins]] of characters originating from the Super Mario franchise.

== On Bedrock Edition Nintendo Switch ==
The ''Super Mario'' Mash-up Pack was released on Bedrock Edition on June 21, 2018, exclusive for Nintendo Switch. It and the ''LittleBigPlanet'' Mash-up Pack for PS4 are the only Mash-up Packs on Bedrock Edition that are limited to a certain platform. The Nintendo Switch version of Bedrock Edition, like the legacy Nintendo Switch Edition, comes bundled with the ''Super Mario'' Mash-up Pack.

== On Legacy Console Edition Wii U ==
The ''Super Mario'' [[Mash-up pack|Mash-up Pack]] was released on May 17, 2016 as part of a free update exclusive to Wii U Edition. It was released on the Nintendo Switch Edition when it launched on May 11, 2017. It was exclusively on the Wii U and Nintendo Switch, and was bundled with both versions of the game. This mash-up adds in new skins, textures, and a pre-built world themed around the ''Super Mario'' franchise, along with an original soundtrack from ''Super Mario 64''.

== On New Nintendo 3DS Edition ==
The ''Super Mario'' Mash-up Pack was released on June 5, 2018, as part a free update exclusive to New Nintendo 3DS Edition. It is the first mash-up pack to be released on the system, and is the same as the Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition versions.

== Skin pack ==

:''Main article: [[Skin pack#SPSM|Skin pack ยง SPSM]]''

The ''Super Mario'' [[Mash-up pack|Mash-up]] Pack has 40 skins to choose from, with all skins not able to roam like on another device or on featured servers.
{| class="wikitable"
!Skins in ''Super Mario'' Mash-up pack 
|}

== External Links ==
Minecraft on the Super Mario Wiki - https://www.mariowiki.com/Minecraft

== See also ==
{{Navbox mash-ups}}