{{Joke feature}}
{{Infobox block
| image = Terre de Pomme.png
| renewable = Yes
| tool = Shovel
| stackable = Yes (64)
| transparent = No
| light = No
| flammable = No
| lavasusceptible = No
}}
'''Terre de pomme''' is a common dirt-type block found throughout the [[Potato dimension]] in [[24w14potato]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
The suitable tool to break terre de pomme is the [[shovel]]. It drops itself when destroyed.
{{breaking row|Terre de Pomme|Shovel|horizontal=1|hidecopper=1}}

=== Block drops ===
Terre de pomme drops when breaking [[peelgrass block]]s or [[corrupted peelgrass block]]s without [[Silk Touch]]. It also always drops when breaking [[poison farmland]] or [[poison path]].

=== Natural generation ===
Terre de pomme naturally generates throughout the surface of the Potato dimension. It also generates as part of [[ruined portatol]]s.

=== Post-generation ===
Terre de pomme can be obtained by letting [[Peelgrass Block|peelgrass block]] or [[Corrupted Peelgrass Block|corrupted peelgrass block]] spread to [[dirt]] and breaking the converted block without [[Silk Touch]].

== Usage ==
Terre de pomme can replace [[dirt]] in many uses. 

It can be turned into [[moss block]]s and [[mud]]. Plants like [[sapling]]s, [[bamboo]], and [[azalea]] can grow on terre de pomme, and [[sugar cane]] can grow too, if the block is adjacent to water. [[Sniffer]]s can dig in terre de pomme. [[Sculk catalyst]]s can replace terre de pomme with [[sculk]] blocks.

=== Smelting ingredient ===
{{Smelting
|Terre de Pomme
|Baked Potato Bricks
}}

=== Converting to peelgrass ===
Peelgrass and corrupted peelgrass naturally spread to any terre de pomme blocks nearby, just like grass spreads to dirt. Terre de pomme can also be turned into peelgrass block by {{control|using}} lime [[potato peels]] on it, or to corrupted peelgrass block by {{control|using}} [[corrupted potato peels]] on it.

=== Farming ===
{{Control|Using}} a [[hoe]] on terre de pomme turns it into [[poison farmland]].

=== Paths ===
{{Control|Using}} a [[shovel]] on terre de pomme turns it into a [[poison path]].

== Sounds ==
{{Sound table/Block/Terredepomme}}

== Trivia ==
* The French term for potato is ''pomme de terre'' ("apple of earth/dirt"). The block name ''terre de pomme'' ("dirt of apple") is a wordplay emphasizing the dirt-like nature of the block.

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox blocks|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke blocks]]
[[Category:Natural blocks]]
[[Category:Generated structure blocks]]

[[ja:Terre de Pomme]]
[[zh:马铃薯泥土]]