{{Infobox video
| type = [[Mojang cinematic]]
| date = December 27, 2025
| length = 2:28
| production = [[Element Animation]]
| prev = [[Mounts of Mayhem (trailer)|Mounts of Mayhem]]
| prev2 = [[A year in blocks]]
}}

'''The Loneliest Chicken of 2025''' (stylized as '''THE LONELIEST CHICKEN OF 2025''') is an informational animation recounting many of the events and records of the year [[2025]].

== Summary ==

Inside a [[village]], where most houses have a roof made of [[copper block]]s, two [[allay]]s and various animals play together, while [[Steve]] and Alex construct a house with a copper roof. A [[chicken]] walks outside the dark gap between two houses where it is standing. It is labeled as the only lonely chicken in the game. Trying to find someone to talk with, it scares two [[armadillo]]s and gets ignored by two [[villager]]s and a busy [[copper golem]]. While the copper golem is busy organizing a [[copper chest]], an [[iron golem]] plants a [[poppy]] on the former's lightning rod. The chicken tries to talk to both golems, but they ignore it as villagers in the background build a full copper tower. The chicken then gets startled by a [[warm pig]] ridden by Steve, and gets disappointed when Steve ran to [[Noor]] who holds a [[saddle]] to their pet [[donkey]] before riding it. Soon, the lonely chicken tumbles down because of a [[cold cow]] leashed by [[Alex]]. The chicken, on the ground, spots [[Sunny]] riding a [[happy ghast]] with a [[boat with chest]] leashed to it. The chicken tries to get Sunny's attention to no avail, becoming depressed. It stumbles then across a sitting [[oxidized copper golem statue]]. The chicken stays sadly alongside the statue as night falls. [[Kai]] notices the chicken and wears a [[carved pumpkin]], decreasing the located players counter by 1. Suddenly, it gets startled as the ground shakes and all villagers hide in their houses. The chicken looks at an empty field and notices the shaking is caused by a [[zombie horseman]], who approaches the chicken and ignores it, revealing a [[baby zombie]] behind it. The chicken and the zombie soon become friends as fireworks are launched into the sky. They become a [[chicken jockey]] who jumps above a fence to chase a warm pig in circles. At the same time, Steve charges outside the fence wielding a [[netherite spear]] as they run away from the zombie horseman from earlier. The chicken jockey, as well a [[horse]]-riding Alex, catch up behind the zombie horseman. As they go by, two [[nautilus]]es pop up of a lake watching the riders. The chicken jockey falls over as the sun begins to rise.

==== Video Statistics ====

* 998 million [[copper golems]] spawned
* 270 million [[mounts]] tamed
* 16 million [[saddle]]s crafted
* 335 billion blocks traveled on mounts
* 1,258,697,620 players [[Locator Bar|located]]
** For a moment before [[Kai]] put on the pumpkin, 1,258,697,621 players showed up
* 41 million [[spear]]s crafted

These statistics likely refer to {{BE}} only, since {{JE}} does not send this information as [[telemetry]] data.

==== Characters ====
{{Columns-list|* {{EntityLink|Alex}}
* {{EntityLink|Allay}}
* {{EntityLink|Armadillo}}
* {{EntityLink|Axolotl}}
* {{EntityLink|Baby Villager|id=villager}}
* {{EntityLink|Baby Zombie|id=zombie}}
* {{EntityLink|Bee}}
* {{EntityLink|Black Sheep}}
* {{EntityLink|Blue Parrot}}
* {{EntityLink|Butcher}}
* {{EntityLink|Camel}}
* {{EntityLink|Cartographer}}
* {{EntityLink|Chicken}}
* {{EntityLink|Chicken Jockey}}
* {{EntityLink|Cleric}}
* {{EntityLink|Cold Cow}}
* {{EntityLink|Copper Golem}}
* {{EntityLink|Dolphin}}
* {{EntityLink|Donkey}}
* {{EntityLink|Farmer}}
* {{EntityLink|Fisherman}}
* {{EntityLink|Happy Ghast}}
* {{EntityLink|Iron Golem}}
* {{EntityLink|Kai}}
* {{EntityLink|Leatherworker}}
* {{EntityLink|Librarian}}
* {{EntityLink|Mason}}
* {{EntityLink|Nautilus}}
* {{EntityLink|Noor}}
* {{EntityLink|Pale Wolf}}
* {{EntityLink|Red Cat}}
* {{EntityLink|Red Parrot}}
* {{EntityLink|Shepherd}}
* {{EntityLink|Snifflet|id=sniffer}}
* {{EntityLink|Steve}}
* {{EntityLink|Sunny}}
* {{EntityLink|Warm Pig}}
* {{EntityLink|White Sheep}}
* {{EntityLink|Zombie Horseman}}
|colwidth=20em}}

== Quotes ==
{{Quote|On happy ghasts you rose up to Chase the Skies for a vibrant visual view. Marched into the Copper Age with the copper golem. Couldn’t wait to Spring to Life and join new mob variants. And when the Mounts of Mayhem were unleashed, you raised your spears and rode into the fray. And of course CHICKEN JOCKEY! Enjoy the free Inflatable Chicken Jockey CC item and thank you for all your creativity (and chaos). 


Disclaimer: Inflatable Chicken Jockey requires the latest version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition (sold separately), with access to Minecraft Marketplace.|Video description}}

== Videos ==
{{YouTube|ojmKQCj7xKQ}}

== Trivia ==
* The music is a remix of [[otherside]].
* The camel and sniffer from [[A Tale of Two Friends]] appear as a cameo in the beginning of the video.

=== Errors ===
* In the first frame, can see that the happy ghast is carrying a boat with copper chest.
* In the video, Mason villagers are shown wearing purple clothes.
* At one point, “0 lonely chicken” shows up instead of “0 lonely chickens”
== Gallery ==
{{Empty Section}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox cinematics}}
[[Category:Community]]