{{Distinguish|Resin Clump}}
{{Joke feature}}

{{Infobox item
| image = Toxic Resin.png <!-- Do not change this to the resin clump block. -->
| renewable = Yes
| stackable = Yes (64)
}}

'''Toxic resin''' is an item used in fletching in [[24w14potato]].

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
[[Resin ore]] drops toxic resin when broken. Toxic resin obtained this way always has air bubble impurities, and is either abysmal, clouded, or eventual clarity.

=== Mob loot ===
Toxic resin have a chance to be dropped by [[toxifin slab]]s. Toxic resin obtained this way always has fishy impurities, and is either clouded or jewel clarity, with jewel clarity being uncommon.

=== Fletching ===
Toxic resin can be fletched into toxic resin with different properties or into [[amber gem]]s at [[fletching table]]s.

=== Smelting ===
{{Smelting
|Poisonous Potato Oil
|Toxic Resin
}}
Toxic resin obtained from smelting is always abysmal clarity but can have any impurities.

== Usage ==
Toxic resin have two properties, "Clarity" and "Impurities", which themselves have random modifiers assigned to them. There are 160 different combinations found/in-game. These modifiers are randomly assigned to each individual toxic resin item.

"Clarity" modifiers, in order of production:
{{columns-list|colwidth=10em|
* Abysmal
* Blemished
* Clouded
* Dull
* Eventual
* Faint
* Glimmering
* Hazy
* Icy
* Jewel
}}

"Impurities" modifiers:
{{columns-list|colwidth=10em|
* Air Bubble
* Bug
* Chemical
* Diorite
* Ender
* Fishy
* Galactic
* Honey
* Insect
* Jinn
* Kraken
* Lunar
* Metallic
* Nether
* Organic
* Pigment
}}

Unused "quality" modifiers{{note|These modifiers only exist inside the translation file for the game. There is also a comment below them that reads: "Comment on ^: These are nice, but I can't find a use for them [G]. Leave a like, leave a comment, and subscribe!, and see you in the next one, bye!"}}:
{{columns-list|colwidth=10em|
* Opaque
* Murky
* Cloudy
* Clear
* Pure
* Flawless
* Perfect
* Transcendent
* Divine
* Ethereal
* Celestial
}}

=== Fletching ingredient ===
Toxic resin with specific modifiers can be fletched into either another toxic resin with another random impurity defined by the fletching table and a clarity improved by one step. Toxic resin of "Jewel" clarity always processes into [[amber gem]]s.

== Data values ==
=== ID ===
{{JE}}:
{{ID table
|edition=java
|showforms=y
|generatetranslationkeys=y
|displayname=Toxic Resin
|spritetype=item
|nameid=toxic_resin
|form=item
|foot=1}}

=== Item data ===
{{see also|Data component format}}
<div class="treeview">
* {{nbt|compound|components}}: the item's '''components''' tag.
{{:Data component format/resin}}
</div>

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox items|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke items]]

[[es:Resina tóxica]]
[[ja:Toxic Resin]]