#REDIRECT [[Tutorial:Ultra hardcore survival]]

----

{{about|the custom gamemode|the joke gamemode|Mentioned features#Joke features}}
{{relevant tutorial|Ultra hardcore survival}}
'''Ultra Hardcore''' ('''UHC''') is a custom [[gamemode]], similar to [[Hardcore]], with the main difference being players cannot naturally regenerate health.

== Gameplay ==
In Ultra Hardcore, players cannot regenerate health from food and must use [[potion]]s, [[suspicious stew]]s, [[golden apple]]s, or [[enchanted golden apple]]s to regain lost health. Like regular [[Hardcore]], players cannot respawn if they die. While a UHC playthrough could theoretically last indefinitely, the primary goal is to defeat the Ender dragon, or defeat all of the other players in the case of a [[PvP]] competition. In PvP UHC, players are spread across the map when they spawn in.
UHC is one of the preferred modes in high-level PvP gameplay.<ref>{{mcnet|new-java-realms--busy-nights-and-ultimate-fights}}</ref>

There are a few ways to set up UHC:

* When a hardcore world is loaded with cheats enabled, the command {{cmd|gamerule naturalRegeneration false}} is entered.
* Setting the "Regenerate health" status to "false" in the "Game Rules" option from the world creation menu.

== History ==
Ultra Hardcore was started by members of the MindCrack SMP server on February 23, 2012.

[[Dinnerbone]]<ref>https://www.youtube.com/user/dinnerbone</ref> and [[Grumm]]<ref>https://www.youtube.com/@mmurg</ref> have participated in MindCrack UHC.

== In the ''Minecraft'' franchise ==
The set of features that make up Ultra Hardcore were added in [[Java Edition 1.6.1|1.6.1]] snapshot [[13w23a]], which is entirely dedicated to making the game mode possible in the vanilla game.

=== Maps ===
The map "ULTRA Hardcore Difficulty" made by [[Logdotzip]], released onto the [[Marketplace]], has been featured on [[Minecraft.net]].<ref>{{mcnet|lets-play-ultra-hardcore-difficulty}}</ref>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox community}}

[[fr:UHC]]
[[ru:Ультрахардкор]]