{{Set index}}
'''Uncooked food''' describes [[food]] items which can be [[Cooked food|cooked]] using a [[furnace]], [[smoker]], or [[campfire]]. They can also be found in various [[Generated loot|loot chests]] in naturally generated [[Structure|structures]].

== List ==
This is a list of all uncooked food items.
* {{ItemLink|Raw Cod}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Salmon}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Chicken}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Beef}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Porkchop}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Mutton}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Rabbit}}
* {{ItemLink|Potato}}

== Obtaining ==
=== Breaking ===
{{main|Potato#Breaking}}
Fully grown [[potato]] crops drop 2 to 5 potatoes ({{frac|3|5|7}} per crop harvested on average). Potato yield can be increased with [[Fortune]].

The first two potatoes always drop, and then three more attempts are made to drop a potato with a success rate of 57.14286% to yield the extra 0–3 drops. Each level of Fortune enchantment increases the number of attempts by one.
{{breaking row|Potatoes|link=none|horizontal=1}}


=== Mob loot ===
The following uncooked [[meat]] items are dropped by killing their respective mobs:

* {{ItemLink|Raw Cod}}, an item dropped by {{EntityLink|cod}}, {{EntityLink|dolphin|dolphins}}, {{EntityLink|Polar Bear|polar bears}}, {{EntityLink|guardian|guardians}}, and {{EntityLink|Elder Guardian|elder guardians}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Salmon}}, an item dropped by {{EntityLink|salmon}}, {{EntityLink|link=none|dolphin|dolphins}}, {{EntityLink|link=none|Polar Bear|polar bears}}, {{EntityLink|link=none|guardian|guardians}}, and {{EntityLink|link=none|elder-guardian|elder guardians}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Chicken}}, an item dropped by {{EntityLink|chicken|text=chickens}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Beef}}, an item dropped by {{EntityLink|cow|text=cows}} and {{EntityLink|mooshroom|text=mooshrooms}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Porkchop}}, an item dropped by {{EntityLink|pig|text=pigs}} and {{EntityLink|hoglin|text=hoglins}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Mutton}}, an item dropped by {{EntityLink|sheep}}
* {{ItemLink|Raw Rabbit}}, an item dropped by {{EntityLink|rabbit|text=rabbits}}
* {{ItemLink|Potato}}, an item rarely dropped by {{EntityLink|zombie|zombies}} and their variants.

=== Generated loot ===
{{LootChestItem|raw-cod,raw-salmon,raw-beef,raw-porkchop,raw-mutton,potato}}

== Usage ==
=== Smelting indgredient ===
{{smelting
 |ingredients=Any uncooked food<br>+<br>Any [[fuel]]
 |Raw Salmon;Raw Cod;Raw Chicken;Raw Beef;Raw Porkchop;Raw Mutton;Raw Rabbit;Potato
 |Cooked Salmon;Cooked Cod;Cooked Chicken;Steak;Cooked Porkchop;Cooked Mutton;Cooked Rabbit;Baked Potato
 |0.35
}}

=== Trading ===
{{main|Trading}}
{{Trade uses|Raw Cod|Raw Salmon|Raw Chicken|Raw Beef|Raw Porkchop|Raw Mutton|Raw Rabbit|Potato}}

=== Wolves ===
Uncooked meat (except cod and salmon {{in|be}}) can be used to heal and breed tamed [[wolves]]. In ''Bedrock Edition'', uncooked cod and salmon can only be used for healing tamed wolves.

=== Cats ===
Raw fish ([[Raw Cod|cod]] and [[Raw Salmon|salmon]]) can be used to tame [[cat]]s with {{frac|1|3}} chance of success, get cats off of [[chest]]s and [[bed]]s, [[breed]] cats, and make baby cats grow up faster by 10% of the remaining time. Additionally, raw fish can be used to heal cats by {{hp|2}}.

=== Ocelots ===
Raw fish can be used to gain [[ocelot]] trust, breed ocelots, and make baby ocelots grow up faster by 10% of the remaining time.

=== Dolphins ===
[[Dolphin]]s can be fed raw fish. Doing this improves their trust and interaction with the player. However, unlike most animals, feeding dolphins does not allow them to breed. Additionally, raw fish can be used to make baby dolphins grow up faster by 10% of the remaining time.

Dolphins swim to the nearest chest in a [[shipwreck]] or [[underwater ruin]] after they are fed raw fish. If the chest in the nearest structure is broken, they swim to another structure with a chest.

=== Nautiluses ===
[[Nautilus]]es can be fed [[raw cod]] or [[raw salmon]] to heal, breed, and attract them.

== Issues ==
{{Issue list|uncooked|uncooked food|raw food|uncooked meat|raw meat|potato}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox items|food}}

[[pt:Alimento cru]]