{{distinguish|Poisonous Potato}}
{{Joke feature}}
{{Wip}}
{{Infobox item
|group=Before eating
|1-1=Potato.png
|group2=After eating
|2-1=Venomous Potato.png
| renewable = Yes
| stackable = Yes (16)
}}
A '''venomous potato''' is a joke item added in [[24w14potato]]. 

== Obtaining ==
Potato crops have a 2% chance to drop a venomous potato if broken at any age.

[[Batato]]s have a 5% chance to drop a venomous potato if killed by the player.

== Usage ==
Before consumption, venomous potato appears exactly the same as a regular potato, but it doesn't stack with normal potatoes. With the [[advanced tooltips]] option turned on, player can see that the ID of this item is actually <code>snektato</code> instead of <code>potato</code>. Other ways to distinguish it include:
* it can't be cooked,
* it stacks to 16 instead of 64,
* it can be "consumed" regardless of the player's hunger level,
* throwing it in lava destroys the item, instead of turning into a [[hot potato]].
* normal potatoes attract pigs, but venomous potatoes don't,
* venomous potatoes can't be composted.

When a player tries to consume the venomous potato, they receive {{hp|2}} damage. No hunger is filled and the item doesn't disappear; instead, it changes its texture and name. On Normal and Hard difficulties, player is also inflicted with [[Poison]] for 7 or 15 seconds, respectively.

After changing the texture, another attempt to consume the venomous potato may be made, although nothing changes in item's behavior. Because this is not a real food item, it doesn't count toward the "Husbandry" or "A Balanced Diet" [[advancement]]s.

== Issues ==
{{April Fools issue list}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox items|Joke}}
{{Navbox jokes|24w14potato}}

[[Category:Joke items]]

[[ja:Venomous Potato]]
[[zh:蛇铃薯]]