{{About|the different types of versions and updates in ''Minecraft''|an overview of the game's version history|Version history|types of versions of ''Java'' and ''Bedrock Edition'' before 2026 using the old numbering system|Version types/Before 2026}}
There are various '''types of versions''' (or '''updates''') of ''[[Minecraft]]''. Generally speaking, updates fall into 3 categories: [[major update]]s, minor updates (including [[game drop]]s), and hot fixes. The terms "version" and "version update"{{cn}} are also synonymous with update. "Version update" often means "major update".

Also, there are many different formats that different editions and versions of ''Minecraft'' use for version names. See [[Version formats]] for more information.

== Release versions ==
A '''release version''' is an update to the game that is fully released to all players on the main release channel. Release versions for ''Java Edition'' and ''Bedrock Edition'' typically have multiple corresponding [[#Development versions|development versions]].

==== Game drops ====
{{main|Game drop}}
'''Game drops''' are named updates, and usually three to four game drops are released each year. A game drop can be small, like [[Bats and Pots]] or bigger, like [[Mounts of Mayhem]]. There is no limit it rule on how big a game drop should be or what content it should have. So, they work just like how major updates have worked for many editions of ''Minecraft''.

=== Minor updates ===
{{IN|BE}}, unnamed minor updates are also sometimes referred to as "minor hotfix updates", since they often consist of only hotfixes and [[parity]] fixes. There were 5 of these in 2020, 5 in 2021, 7 in 2022, 6 in 2023, 4 in 2024, and 3 in 2025.

There were fewer minor hotfix updates in the last two years, because some of them were replaced with game drops. Game drops fix all of the same issues that minor hotfix updates do. So, really, a game drop contains these same fixes. Also, minor hotfix updates can sometimes add minor new features or significant changes to existing features, but this has become rarer recently.

A minor hotfix update will often add features that are part of the next [[game drop]], as an [[experimental]] toggle with a matching name. For example, [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.100]] added a toggle named "Drop 3 2025" For [[The Copper Age]].

=== Hotfixes ===
Hotfixes fix bugs or make important revisions to features. Usually, these bug fixes or revisions are related to newer features, such as features from the last game drop, since any other revisions would be more appropriate for a minor update.

{{IN|JE}}, hotfixes change the 3rd number in the version number. For example, Java Edition 26.1 -> Java Edition 26.1.2. These hotfixes sometimes function not like ''Bedrock Edition's'' minor hotfix updates, and historically, some hotfixes even added new features.

{{IN|BE}}, hotfixes increase the 2nd number by 1 or 2 instead of going to the next 10. For example, Bedrock Edition 26.10 -> Bedrock Edition 26.11. This is due to bedrock having more frequent updates throughout the year.<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-new-version-numbering-system|Minecraft's New Version Numbering System|December 2, 2025}}</ref>

== Development versions ==
A '''development version''' is a version of the game which is publicly released with the intent of testing new features, changes, and bug fixes that are to make their way into the [[#Release versions|full release]] of a major or minor update. They are experimental (some types more so than others) and may break the game.

=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{see also|Java Edition version history/Development versions}}

==== Snapshots ====
{{main|Snapshot}}
{{for|how snapshots are named|Version formats#Snapshots}}

A "snapshot" is a term used to describe unstable development versions for ''Java Edition'' updates. Every game drop, and sometimes other minor updates, have snapshots released roughly weekly for player feedback on in-development features and changes.

Currently, snapshots extend the [[Version formats|naming format]] used for release version like this: <code>''version'' Snapshot ''snapshot-number''</code>, e.g. [[26.1 Snapshot 1]] is the '''1'''st snapshot for '''[[26.1]]'''.

Prior to 26.1 Snapshot 1, snapshots used an entirely different and unique naming scheme; see [[Version formats#Snapshots]] for more information.

The first ever snapshot was [[11w47a]] for [[Java Edition 1.1|1.1]] in 2011.

==== Experimental snapshots ====
{{for|how experimental snapshots are named|Version formats#Experimental snapshots}}

"Experimental snapshots" are a specific type of snapshot Mojang uses very early in the development cycle, before the standard snapshot cycle of development. These versions include even more unstable changes than standard snapshots have.

Experimental snapshots were first used for [[Java Edition 1.18|1.18]], with [[1.18 Experimental Snapshot 1]], and since 1.18, they have only been used once for [[Java Edition 1.19|1.19]]. This development format has been discontinued as experiments have been converted into toggleable data packs since [[Java Edition 22w42a|22w42a]].

==== Pre-releases ====
{{about||how pre-releases are named post-1.0.0|Version formats#Pre-releases|how pre-releases were named in Beta|Version formats#Beta}}

A pre-release is a more stable development version of the game than a snapshot. Once development reaches the pre-release phase, the update is deemed feature complete, and subsequent pre-releases focus on fixing bugs and improving the stability of the features to be added in that update. The final pre-release may be functionally identical to the full release (for instance [[Java Edition 1.4.7|1.4.7]]).

Pre-releases were first used for the development of [[Java Edition Beta 1.8]], with the first ever pre-release being [[Beta 1.8 Pre-release]]. At this time, snapshots did not exist yet, so this pre-release was the first development version for Beta 1.8.

==== Release candidates ====
{{about||how release candidates are named post-1.0.0|Version formats#Release candidates|how release candidates were named in Beta|Version formats#Beta}}

A release candidate is a development version of the game that is intended to be the last version before the full release, unless a major game-breaking bug is discovered.<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-16-release-candidate|Minecraft 1.16 Release Candidate 1|June 18, 2020}}</ref> Often, the full release of a version is identical to its last release candidate, differing only in the version name string, protocol version, and data version.

The first release candidate was [[RC1]] for [[Java Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]] in 2011. After 1.0.0, there were no release candidates until [[1.16 Release Candidate 1]] in 2020.

==== Previews ====
A preview is a development version of the game that is only played by a select group outside of Mojang. Preview versions have been given to Hat Films to film the update trailers for [[Java Edition Beta 1.6 (preview)|Beta 1.6]], [[Java Edition Beta 1.7 (preview)|Beta 1.7]], and [[Java Edition Beta 1.8 (preview)|Beta 1.8]]. There was also a preview version of [[Java Edition Beta 1.8 (PAX Prime)|Beta 1.8]] that was playable by attendees at PAX Prime 2011.

==== Test Build ====
A test build was a development version of the game. The only released test build was [[Beta 1.6 Test Build 3]].

=== ''Pocket Edition'' ===
==== Builds and alphas ====
{{for|how alphas are named|Version formats#Alpha 2}}

Builds were development versions used in ''Pocket Edition'', available on Android. Once the [[Pocket Edition Alpha]] phase was complete, the name "alpha" was then reserved for development versions for [[Pocket Edition 1.0.0]] and [[Pocket Edition 1.1.0|1.1.0]].

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{see also|Bedrock Edition version history/Development versions}}

==== Betas and previews ====
{{Main|Minecraft Preview}}
{{for|how betas are named|Version formats#Betas/Previews}}

Development versions {{in|bedrock}} are known as '''betas''' and '''Previews'''.

Since the release of the [[Better Together Update]] to {{BE}}, development builds subsequently took the form of "beta" builds, released for Android, Xbox, and Windows 10.

Once development versions became available on Apple platforms, development builds were known as Previews on those devices, while retaining the name of "beta" on Android. This wiki primarily uses the term "Preview", but "beta" is equally valid.

Beta/Preview versions increment a 3rd digit of the version number, starting on 20 or 21, and incrementing by 1 or 2 with each new beta/Preview.

Usually, betas/Previews are released on Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday.

== April Fools' updates ==
Mojang often releases [[April Fools' Day jokes|joke updates]] on April Fools' Day. These are usually formatted as ''Java Edition'' [[snapshot]]s, and are made from one of the latest builds of the game. These often have a theme and a special name that matches that theme. Features added in these snapshots (or updates) are not mentioned in the change logs for future snapshots (or updates), since they are not considered to be {{Slink||Development versions}}.

== Seecret Updates ==
The [[Seecret Updates]] were a series of ten {{JE}} updates released by [[Notch]] during the [[Infdev]] and [[Java Edition Alpha|Alpha]] development stages of {{MC}}, often without announcement. They were named after the day of the week on which they were released. All of the updates were released on Fridays, except [[Seecret Saturday]], released on September 18, 2010, which was a Saturday.

== Developer versions ==
{{Main|Developer build}}
These are not to be confused with {{Slink||Development versions}}.

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Minecraft|general}}

[[Category:Versions|*]]

[[es:Tipos de versiones]]
[[fr:Types de versions]]
[[ja:バージョンの種類]]
[[pt:Tipos de versão]]
[[ru:Типы версий]]
[[th:ประเภทเวอร์ชัน]]
[[uk:Типи версій]]
[[zh:版本类型]]