This page documents version types for release and development versions {{JE}} and {{BE}} before the [[Version format#2026 onward|new version format]] was introduced in 2026. For the history of other version types, please see [[Version types]].

== Release versions ==
A '''release version''' is an update to the game that is fully released to all players on the main release channel. Release versions for ''Java Edition'' and ''Bedrock Edition'' typically have multiple corresponding [[#Development versions|development versions]].

=== Major updates ===
{{Main|Major update}}
A '''major update''' is an update that adds multiple new features to the game. Typically, these include new [[biome]]s or [[structure]]s as the highlights, and most of the features fit into an overarching theme as described by the update's name. For example, [[Tricky Trials]] adds a single new structure, and almost every new feature in the update is directly related to the [[trial chambers]] or is an actual part of them.

In ''Java Edition'' and ''Bedrock Edition'', major updates always change the second number in the version number. For example, [[Java Edition 1.20]] to [[Java Edition 1.21]].

=== Minor updates ===
A minor update typically adds small features that complement the previous major update or make revisions to features from the major update. For example, [[Java Edition 1.16.2]] and [[Bedrock Edition 1.16.20]] added the [[Piglin Brute]] as an extra feature of the [[Nether Update]]. However, a minor update can also add or change features that are unrelated to the major updates before and after it.

Minor updates typically change the 3rd number in the version number. For example, [[Java Edition 1.21.4]] -> [[Java Edition 1.21.5]]. {{IN|BE}}, the version number is usually incremented to the next 10 instead of 1 or 2 to make room for hotfixes. [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.2]] -> [[Bedrock Edition 1.18.10]] is an example of this.

==== Game drops ====
{{main|Game drop}}
'''Game drops''' are named minor updates. They tend to add new features that aren't related to the previous or next major update. However, [[Bats and Pots]] updates [[decorated pot]]s, which were added in the previous major update. Also, [[Armored Paws]] makes [[wolves]] more viable in combat, which aligns with the combat-focused content of the next major update.

There is also the [[Texture Update]], but its name is pretty generic, so it's not considered an update.

=== Hotfixes ===
Hotfixes fix bugs or make important revisions to features. Usually these bug fixes or revisions are related to newer features, such as features from the last major update, since any other revisions would be more appropriate for a minor update.

Hotfixes typically change the 3rd number in the version number. For example, [[Java Edition 1.14.1]] -> [[Java Edition 1.14.2]]. This makes them look like minor updates. Hot fixes {{in|be}} also change the 3rd number, but increase by 1 or 2 instead of going to the next 10. For example, [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.81]] -> [[Bedrock Edition 1.21.82]]. ''Bedrock Edition'' does this because it has more hotfixes across more platforms than ''Java Edition'', and this makes it easier to differentiate between hotfixes and minor updates.

{{IN|BE}}, un-named minor updates are also sometimes referred to as "minor hotfix updates", or since they often consist of only hotfixes and [[parity]] fixes. There were 5 of these in 2020, 5 in 2021, 7 in 2022, 6 in 2023, 4 in 2024, and 3 in 2025.

== Development versions ==
A '''development version''' is a version of the game which is publicly released with the intent of testing new features, changes and bug fixes that are to make their way into the [[#Release versions|full release]] of a major or minor update. They are experimental (some types more so than others) and may break the game.

=== ''Java Edition'' ===
{{see also|Java Edition version history/Development versions}}

==== Snapshots ====
{{main|Snapshot}}
{{for|how snapshots are named|Version formats#Snapshots}}

A "snapshot" is a term used to describe unstable development versions for ''Java Edition'' updates. Every major update, and many minor updates, have snapshots released roughly weekly for player feedback on in-development features and changes.

Snapshots use a unique [[Version formats|naming format]]. The first number is the two-digit year, the second number is the two-digit week number, and the last letter increments alphabetically for each snapshot release within a week.

The first ever snapshot was [[11w47a]] for [[Java Edition 1.1|1.1]] in 2011.

==== Experimental snapshots ====
{{for|how experimental snapshots are named|Version formats#Experimental snapshots}}

"Experimental snapshots" are a specific type of snapshot Mojang uses very early in the development cycle, before the standard snapshot cycle of development. These versions include even more unstable changes than standard snapshots have.

Experimental snapshots were first used for [[Java Edition 1.18|1.18]], with [[1.18 Experimental Snapshot 1]], and since 1.18 they have only been used once for [[Java Edition 1.19|1.19]]. This development format has been discontinued as experiments have been converted into toggleable data packs since [[Java Edition 22w42a|22w42a]].

==== Pre-releases ====
{{about||how pre-releases are named post-1.0.0|Version formats#Pre-releases|how pre-releases were named in Beta|Version formats#Beta}}

A pre-release is a more stable development version of the game than a snapshot. Once development reaches the pre-release phase, the update is deemed feature complete, and subsequent pre-releases focus on fixing bugs and improving the stability of the features to be added in that update. The final pre-release may be functionally identical to the full release (for instance [[Java Edition 1.4.7|1.4.7]]).

Pre-releases were first used for development of [[Java Edition Beta 1.8]], with the first ever pre-release being [[Beta 1.8 Pre-release]]. At this time, snapshots did not exist yet, so this pre-release was the first development version for Beta 1.8.

==== Release candidates ====
{{about||how release candidates are named post-1.0.0|Version formats#Release candidates|how release candidates were named in Beta|Version formats#Beta}}

A release candidate is a development version of the game that is intended to be the last version before the full release, unless a major game-breaking bug is discovered.<ref>{{Mcnet|minecraft-1-16-release-candidate|Minecraft 1.16 Release Candidate 1|June 18, 2020}}</ref> Often, the full release of a version is identical to its last release candidate, differing only in the version name string, protocol version, and data version.

The first release candidate was [[RC1]] for [[Java Edition 1.0.0|1.0.0]] in 2011. After 1.0.0, there were no release candidates until [[1.16 Release Candidate 1]] in 2020.

==== Previews ====
A preview is a development version of the game that is only played by a select group outside of Mojang. Preview versions have been given to Hat Films to film the update trailers for [[Java Edition Beta 1.6 (preview)|Beta 1.6]], [[Java Edition Beta 1.7 (preview)|Beta 1.7]] and [[Java Edition Beta 1.8 (preview)|Beta 1.8]]. There was also a preview version of [[Java Edition Beta 1.8 (PAX Prime)|Beta 1.8]] that was playable by attendees at PAX Prime 2011.

=== ''Bedrock Edition'' ===
{{see also|Bedrock Edition version history/Development versions}}

==== Betas and previews ====
{{Main|Minecraft Preview}}
{{for|how betas are named|Version formats#Betas/Previews}}

Development versions {{in|bedrock}} are known as '''betas''' and '''Previews'''.

Since the release of the [[Better Together Update]] to {{BE}}, development builds subsequently took the form of "beta" builds, released for Android, Xbox and Windows 10.

Once development versions became available on Apple platforms, development builds were now known as Previews on those devices, while retaining the name of "beta" on Android.

Beta/Preview versions increment a 4th digit of the version number, starting on 20 or 21, and incrementing by 1 or 2 every new beta/Preview.

Usually, betas/Previews are released on Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:Versions]]