{{Disambig}}

'''Vines''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
=== Overworld ===
* {{BlockLink|Vines}}, green plants native to jungles and swamps.
** {{BlockLink|id=vines|Vines (feature)|Vines}}, a feature that generates in [[jungle]] biomes and their variants.
* {{BlockLink|Cave Vines}}, a plant used to grow glow berries.
** {{BlockLink|id=cave-vines|Cave Vines (feature)|Cave Vines}}, a feature that generates in [[lush cave]] biomes.
* {{BlockLink|Pale Hanging Moss}}, a grey plant with vine-like structure native to [[pale garden]] biomes.

'''Unimplemented''' 
*[[Mentioned features/Blue Berries|Blueberry Vines]]

=== The Nether ===
* {{BlockLink|Twisting Vines Plant|Twisting Vines}}, blue plants native to warped forests.
** {{BlockLink|id=twisting-vines-plant|Twisting Vines (feature)|Twisting Vines}}, a feature that generates in [[warped forest]] biomes.
* {{BlockLink|Weeping Vines Plant|Weeping Vines}}, red plants native to crimson forests.
** {{BlockLink|id=weeping-vines-plant|Weeping Vines (feature)|Weeping Vines}}, a feature that generates in [[crimson forest]] biomes.

=== Game rule ===
* {{gmr|doVinesSpread}}

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==
=== Jungle Awakens ===
* {{DuEntityLink|Abomination Vine}}, plant mobs summoned by the Jungle Abomination.
* {{DuEntityLink|Poison-Quill Vine}}, poisonous plant mobs found in all three levels of the Jungle Awakens DLC.
* {{DuEntityLink|Quick Growing Vine}}, plant mobs found in all three levels of the Jungle Awakens DLC.
* {{DuItemLink|Vine Whip}}, a unique variant of the Whip.

=== Flames of the Nether ===
* {{DuItemLink|Living Vines Armor}}, a unique variant of the Sprout Armor.
* {{DuItemLink|Twisting Vine Bow}}, a ranged weapon found in the Nether.
* {{DuItemLink|Weeping Vine Bow}}, a unique variant of the Twisting Vines Bow.

== ''Minecraft Legends'' ==
* {{LeMiscLink|Poison Vines}}, a hazard that poisons any entity that walks on it.

== ''Minecraft Earth'' ==
* {{BlockLink|Vines|link=Earth:Vines}}

[[de:Ranken (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[fr:Lianes (homonymie)]]
[[ja:ツタ (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[pt:Trepadeiras (desambiguação)]]
[[ru:Лианы (значения)]]
[[zh:藤蔓（消歧义）]]