{{Lost version}}
{{Infobox version
|title=v0.12.0.1
|edition=Windows 10 Edition
|image=v0.12.0.1 alpha.gif
| internal = 0.12.2.0
|date=August 11, 2015
|prev=v0.12.0
|prevlink=Windows 10 Edition Beta v0.12.0
|next=v0.12.1
|nextlink=Pocket Edition v0.12.1 alpha
|nextparent=v0.13.0
|nextparentlink=Pocket Edition v0.13.0 alpha
}}<onlyinclude>

'''v0.12.0.1'''<ref>https://web.archive.org/web/20150813225008/https://www.mojang.com/2015/08/windows-10-edition-beta-0-12-2-0/</ref> is a minor update to the [[Windows 10 Edition]] Beta released on August 11, 2015 to fix some of the bugs and crashes in [[Windows 10 Edition Beta v0.12.0|v0.12.0]].

This is the first version of ''Windows 10 Edition'' to support 32-bit systems.

== Changes ==
=== Blocks ===
; [[Anvil]]
* the Main UI can be accessed whilst renaming/repairing.
* Items can now be placed in the second slot.

; [[Slab|Nether Brick Slab]]
* Can now be crafted.

=== Non-mob Entities ===
; [[Boat]]
* Players can now message in [[chat]] while riding them.

=== Gameplay ===
; [[Sprinting]]
* Now works like in {{JE}}.

; [[World]]
* Creative world saves can now be imported to the Trial version.

; Other
* Real fullscreen can now be enabled.

== Fixes ==
* "Repopulation" achievement fixed.
* Fixed spawning/respawning in the Nether & flat worlds.
* Mining emerald ore fixed for correct pickaxe types.
* Custom skins tab fixed.
* Fixed scenario where writing signs would cause the game to crash.
* Fixed issues with furnaces & chests not working.
* Fixed crashes when players repeatedly entered & left the Nether.
* Audio file fixes.
* Fixed crashes for players with non-ASCII characters in names.
* Fixed world progress saved game issue.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Bedrock Edition versions|Alpha}}

[[de:Windows 10 Edition Beta 0.12.0.1]]
[[es:Pocket Edition v0.12.0.1 alpha]]
[[fr:Version portable Alpha 0.12.0.1]]
[[ja:Windows 10 Edition Beta v0.12.0.1]]
[[pt:Windows 10 Edition Beta v0.12.0.1]]
[[ru:Beta v0.12.0.1 (Windows 10 Edition)]]
[[zh:携带版0.12.0.1]]