{{Disambiguation}}

'''Wither''' may refer to:

== ''Minecraft'' ==
=== Mobs ===
* {{EntityLink|Wither}} - a boss that can be created by players.
** {{ItemLink|Wither Spawn Egg}}
* {{EntityLink|Wither Skeleton}} - a Nether variation of the skeletons similar to the wither.
** {{ItemLink|Wither Skeleton Spawn Egg}}

=== Items ===
* {{BlockLink|Wither Rose}} - a flower which gives the Wither status effect, created after the wither slays a mob.
* Wither's totem [[painting]] - a painting of the recipe to create a wither.
* {{ItemLink|Nether Star}} - a item that can be dropped by a wither.

=== Blocks ===
* {{BlockLink|Chiseled Red Sandstone}} - a chiseled block with a wither image on it.
* {{BlockLink|Wither Skeleton Skull}} - a rare drop from the wither skeletons.

=== Effect ===
* {{EffectLink|link=Wither (effect)|Wither}} - an effect that can be caused by either wither or wither skeleton.

=== Jokes ===
* {{EntityLink|Pink Wither}} - a joke variation of the wither in an April Fools' version.

=== Tutorials ===
* [[Tutorial:Defeating the wither|Defeating the wither]]
* [[Tutorial:Wither choker|Wither choker]]
* [[Tutorial:Wither cage|Wither cage]]
* [[Tutorial:Wither Skeleton farming|Wither Skeleton farming]]
* [[Tutorial:Wither Rose farming|Wither Rose farming]]
* [[Tutorial:Getting rid of a rogue wither| rid of a rogue wither]]

== ''Minecraft Dungeons'' ==
=== Mobs ===
* {{DuEntityLink|Wither Skeleton}} - a melee Nether variation of the skeletons.
* {{DuEntityLink|Wither Skeleton Archer}} - an archer Nether variation of the skeletons.

=== Armors ===
* {{DuItemLink|Wither Armor}} - an armor made by the parts of slain wither skeletons.

=== Enchantments ===
* [[Minecraft Dungeons:Withering|Withering]] - an enchantment exclusive for the stone swords and the red snakes of the wither skeletons.

=== Effects ===
* [[Minecraft Dungeons:Wither|Wither]] - an effect exclusive to wither skeletons.

== ''Minecraft: Story Mode'' ==
=== Mobs ===
* {{SMEntityLink|Wither Storm}} - the main antagonist from ''{{MCSM|The Order of the Stone}}'' to ''{{MCSM|A Block and a Hard Place}}''.

=== Items ===
* {{SMItemLink|Withered Nether Star}} - a variant of the Nether star obtained from the wither storm.
* {{SMItemLink|Wither Skull}} - a skull obtained from wither skeletons.

=== Illnesses ===
* [[MCSM:Wither|Wither]] - an illness contracted from wither mobs, including the wither storm. Also referred to as "wither sickness".
* {{MCSM|Mad Wither}} - an illness contracted from the wither storm that causes retrograde amnesia without inducing wither effects.

== See also ==
* [[Decay]]

[[de:Wither (Begriffsklärung)]]
[[it:Wither (disambigua)]]
[[ja:ウィザー (曖昧さ回避)]]
[[ko:위더 (동음이의)]]
[[ru:Иссушитель (значения)]]
[[zh:凋灵（消歧义）]]