{{Infobox version
| title = TU6
| edition = Xbox 360
| date = November 15, 2012
| image = Xbox 360 Edition TU6.png
| image2 = 
| internal = Build 1.8.2.0144.0<br>Installer v0.0.6.1
| clientdl = [https://archive.org/download/Minecraft-Xbox360-TUs/Minecraft%20Xbox%20360%20Edition%20TUs/TU6/Cache/TU_1C424FN_0000004000000.00000000001G1  Download]
| prev = TU5
| next = TU7
}}

'''TU6''' is a version of ''[[Xbox 360 Edition]]'' released on November 15, 2012.<ref>{{cite | url = http://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-editions/minecraft-xbox-360-edition/mcx360-discussion/2064202-mcxbla-title-update-change-logs | title = Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Patch change logs | website = Minecraft Forum | date = November 15, 2012}}</ref> This version is based on [[Java Edition Beta 1.8.1|Java Edition Beta 1.8.1.]] 

{{cvnote|TU6}}

== Additions ==
* Added a quick command to clear the hotbar in [[creative]] mode. (X Button)
* Added a toggle to turn [[Void]] fog on and off. Fog is disabled by default. Void fog is dependent on the game's Hosts's settings.
* Added an option to disable HUD and appearance of player hand in graphics settings.
* Added a How To Play page for Host and Player options.

== Changes ==
* [[Cake]]s are now stackable.
* [[Fence]] collision box decreased to size of fence block
* [[Golden apple]]s and [[pumpkin seeds]] can now be crafted.
** Golden apple recipe uses gold ingots in place of nuggets.

== Fixes ==
* Fix for renaming save files.
* Fix for worlds created pre-1.8.2 crashing because of [[sign]]s.
* Fix for respawning players appearing on maps while "Gamertag Display" is disabled.
* Fix for water and lava [[bucket]]s in creative mode not having infinite uses as intended.
* Fix for mob generation code to spawn more animals in the world.
* Fix for chests being incorrectly lit and placed on worlds created before the 1.8.2 update.
* Fix for eating animation showing on players who weren't eating.
* Fix for chest lids not behaving properly.
* Fix for game sounds not playing when player has an empty hand.
* Fix for mobs appearing to take damage when they aren't.
* Fix for Lever and fence gate sounds.
* Fix for Leader of the Pack achievement being incorrectly rewarded.
* Fix for Leaderboard stats.
* Fix for hitbox issues with glass panes and iron bars
* Fix for the small-character display turning green.
* Fix for splitscreen players having settings set to zero.
* Fix for issues with rendering with clouds disabled and rendering blocks at the edge of the map.
* Fix for splitscreen players not being able to mine in the tutorial.
* Fix for players not being able to Sprint in creative after saving in survival with a low hunger bar.
* Fix for PvP damage from arrows while PvP is disabled
* Fix for pressure plates not working correctly when activated.
* Fix for the low food bar hint appearing during a creative game.
* Removed player shadow from the Host while Host Invisibility is enabled
* Fix for red flowers not spawning in world generation.
* Fix for paintings being pushed by pistons
* Fix to prevent players who can't eat due to Trust Players being turned off do not get exhausted.
* Fixed an issue with the interface disappearing after using the Facebook Share tool.
* Fix to limit the number of slimes, ghasts and silverfish that can be spawned in the world.
* Fix to prevent the cursor from going offscreen in creative mode.
* Fixed issues with capes:
** Not displaying correctly while sprint-flying
** Not displaying while in the Nether
** Not displaying when the player respawns
* Fixed bows in Creative Mode so that they do not consume ammo when fired
* Reduced the volume of the chest opening/closing sound effect

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Xbox 360 Edition versions}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:TU6}}

[[es:Xbox 360 Edition TU6]]
[[pt:Xbox 360 Edition TU6]]
[[ru:TU6 (Legacy Console Edition)]]
[[uk:TU6 (Xbox 360 Edition)]]
[[zh:原主机版版本记录#TU6]]