{{No unedited version}}
{{Infobox version
| title = Build 0054
| edition = Xbox 360
| date = March 22, 2012
| image = Xbox 360 Edition Build 0054.png
| image2 = Xbox 360 Edition preview 0.66.0054.0.png
| unreleased = y
| internal = Build 0.66.0054.0
| clientdl = [https://archive.org/details/minecraft-xbox-360-0.66.0054.0 Game]{{note|Includes the original game files but the compiled package (specifically its metadata) has been modified.}}
| prev = GDC 2012 build
| next = TU0
}}

'''Build 0054''' (or '''Build 1.66.0054.0''') is a development version of {{edition|xbox 360}}. This version is based on [[Java Edition Beta 1.6.6]].

The only archived copy has modified package metadata, with the game name "Minecraft XDK Edition" and the description of "Minecraft from Partnernet v1.0". However, the textures and all other files appear to be unmodified.

== Additions ==
*New panorama and tutorial world.
*Added the ability to exit without saving.
*Added a save indicator when game is loaded.

== Changes ==
*Music and sound now plays on the menu screen.
*Redesigned all options menus.
*[[Splash]] now pulses faster.
*Changed the create world and loading screens.
*Panorama now loops endlessly, as opposed from going left to right.
*Changed the crafting menu.
*Loading tips show when saving or loading a world.
*Updated debug menus.
*Game now runs smoother.
*Changed the door sound.
*Weapons are replaced from the tools section from the crafting menu.

== Removals ==

*Removed the golden apple from the crafting menu.{{More info needed|Needs source}}
*Removed the weapons section from the crafting menu.{{More info needed|Needs source}}

== Trivia ==

* A new menu panorama was introduced along with the new tutorial world, and the panorama appears to be the tutorial level but with more lighting and structures.

== Notes ==
{{notelist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Xbox 360 Edition versions}}

[[ja:Xbox 360 Edition 0.66.0054.0]]
[[pt:Xbox 360 Edition 0.66.0054.0]]
[[uk:0.66.0054.0 (Xbox 360 Edition)]]
[[zh:Xbox 360版0.66.0054.0]]