{{Infobox version
| title = TU7
| edition = Xbox 360
| date = December 19, 2012
| image = Xbox 360 Edition TU7.png
| image2 = 
| internal = Build 1.0.1.0159.0<br>Installer v0.0.7.1
| clientdl = [https://archive.org/download/Minecraft-Xbox360-TUs/Minecraft%20Xbox%20360%20Edition%20TUs/TU7/584111F7/000B0000/tu00000001_00000000  Download]
| prev = TU6
| next = TU8
}}

'''TU7''' is a version of ''[[Xbox 360 Edition]]'' released on December 19, 2012.<ref>{{cite | url = http://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-editions/minecraft-xbox-360-edition/mcx360-discussion/2064202-mcxbla-title-update-change-logs | title = Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Patch change logs | website = Minecraft Forum | date = December 19, 2012}}</ref> This version is based on [[Java Edition 1.0.0]]. 

{{cvnote|TU7, equivalent to Java Edition 1.0.0.}}

== Additions ==
{{Additions table
|End Portal
|End Portal Frame
|End Stone
|Nether Brick Fence
|Nether Brick Stairs
|Nether Bricks
|Brewing Stand
|Cauldron
|Enchantment Table
|Mycelium
|Lily Pad
|Nether Wart
|Eye of Ender
|Blaze Powder
|Blaze Rod
|Ghast Tear
|Glistering Melon
|Gold Nugget
|Spider Eye
|Fermented Spider Eye
|Bottle o' Enchanting
|Glass Bottle
|Water Bottle
|Splash Water Bottle
|Awkward Potion
|Awkward Splash Potion
|Mundane Potion
|Mundane Splash Potion
|Thick Potion
|Thick Splash Potion
|Potion of Fire Resistance
|Splash Potion of Fire Resistance
|Potion of Harming
|Splash Potion of Harming
|Potion of Healing
|Splash Potion of Healing
|Potion of Poison
|Splash Potion of Poison
|Potion of Regeneration
|Splash Potion of Regeneration
|Potion of Slowness
|Splash Potion of Slowness
|Potion of Strength
|Splash Potion of Strength
|Potion of Swiftness
|Splash Potion of Swiftness
|Potion of Weakness
|Splash Potion of Weakness
|Magma Cream}}

=== General ===
* <span style="color:red">1.4.6 Feature</span>: Item name appears above hotbar when switching to it.
* Phases of the moon added
* New tutorial world with new biome
** New mini-tutorials for new features
** Updated new music disc quest
* How to play: new section to brewing, enchantment and breeding
* Added avatar items to the download context menu.
* Added [[Festive Skin Pack]]
=== Gameplay ===
* Potion brewing & [[potion]]s
* [[Enchanting]] 
** <span style="color:red">1.1 Feature</span>: Bows are enchantable
* [[Experience]]
** <span style="color:red">1.3.1 Feature</span>: Based on newer enchanting system. Maximum level of enchantments is 30 instead of 50
** <span style="color:red">1.3.1 Feature</span>: The player can receive experience from smelting and/or mining ores (e.g. [[iron ingot]]s when smelting, [[redstone ore]]s when mining).
** <span style="color:red">1.3.1 Feature</span>: The player can receive experience from breeding.
* Animal [[breeding]]
** <span style="color:red">1.2.1 Feature</span>: [[Wolves]] can be bred.
** <span style="color:red">1.4.2 Feature</span>: [[Chicken]]s are bred with [[seeds]] or [[nether wart]].

=== Blocks ===
* [[End portal frame]], [[brewing stand]], [[enchantment table]], [[cauldron]], [[lily pad]], [[nether bricks]], [[nether brick fence]], [[Stairs|nether brick stairs]], [[mycelium]], [[end stone]]

=== Items ===
* [[Blaze rod]], [[ghast tear]], [[gold nugget]], [[glass bottle]], [[water bottle]], [[spider eye]], [[fermented spider eye]], [[eye of ender]], [[glistering melon]], [[nether wart]], [[blaze powder]], [[bottle o' enchanting]], [[magma cream]]

=== World generation ===
* [[The End]]
** Is not finished.
* [[Mushroom island]] biome
* [[Nether fortress]]es

=== Mobs ===
* [[Blaze]], [[snow golem]], [[magma cube]]s, baby animals, [[mooshroom]]s, [[villager]]s
** [[Mooshroom]]s can rarely spawn in plains biome
** Villagers only appear as farmers and cannot trade, breed or open doors.
** <span style="color:red">1.1 Feature</span>: Magma cubes drop magma cream.

== Changes ==

=== General ===
* [[Skin]]-related animation for [[Skin Packs]]
** Option to disable skin animation
* Reordered some blocks and items in the Redstone tab in the Creative inventory.

=== Blocks and items ===
* Fences now attach to adjacent blocks.
* [[Ender pearl]]s can now be thrown to teleport in Survival and Creative mode (will take damage upon landing).
* <span style="color:red">1.3.1 Feature</span>: Added more descriptive tooltips for different types of tree-related blocks, silverfish blocks and stone bricks.

=== Mobs ===
* In creative mode, hostile mobs don't go after the player, unless attacked.

== Trailer ==
{{yt|TZmxZjAsGO4}}

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Xbox 360 Edition versions}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:TU7}}

[[es:Xbox 360 Edition TU7]]
[[pt:Xbox 360 Edition TU7]]
[[ru:TU7 (Xbox 360 Edition)]]
[[uk:TU7 (Xbox 360 Edition)]]
[[zh:原主机版版本记录#TU7]]