{{Infobox version
| title = TU10
| edition = Xbox 360
| date = April 16, 2013
| image = Xbox 360 Edition TU10.png
| image2 = 
| internal = Build 1.1.0188.0<br>Installer v0.0.10.1
| clientdl = [https://archive.org/download/Minecraft-Xbox360-TUs/Minecraft%20Xbox%20360%20Edition%20TUs/TU10/584111F7/000B0000/tu00000001_00000000  Download]
| prev = TU9
| next = TU11
}}

'''TU10''' is a version of ''[[Xbox 360 Edition]]'' released on April 16, 2013.<ref>{{cite | url = http://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-editions/minecraft-xbox-360-edition/mcx360-discussion/2064202-mcxbla-title-update-change-logs | title = Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Patch change logs | website = Minecraft Forum | date = April 16, 2013}}</ref> This is the version of the game contained on the retail disc.<ref>{{tweet|4JStudios|341570549346091009|No, the retail disc is the equivalent of TU10, and it ships with an Xbox LIVE trial that can be used to update to TU11.}}</ref>

{{cvnote}}

== Fixes ==
* Fix for Silver LIVE profiles getting an error message on loading a save.
* Fix for lighting bug causing unlit areas even when light sources were placed in these areas.
* Fixed slowdown caused by explosions (TNT, creepers and ghasts).
* Fixed frame rate slowdown in the End being experienced by some players until the End crystals were destroyed.
* Fixed crash when placing lots of item frames with maps inside.
* Fixed collision box issue at the top of ladders.
* Fixed issues with animals taking damage randomly or falling through the wooden planks floors.
* Made dispenser suck water/lava back into an empty bucket.
* Fix for potion bottles being launched from a dispenser.
* Enabled placing pressure plates on Nether brick fence.
* Fixed an issue with fire charges sticking at the edge of the world.
* Change to not be able to place more than the [[spawn limit|maximum amount]] of paintings/item frames, rather than removing previously placed ones.
* Stop players from interacting with item frames and paintings when ‘Can Build and Mine' is disabled.
* Fixed the Custom Skin Animation setting not working.
* Play the correct sound on hitting the ender dragon.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Xbox 360 Edition versions}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:TU10}}

[[es:Xbox 360 Edition TU10]]
[[pt:Xbox 360 Edition TU10]]
[[ru:TU10 (Xbox 360 Edition)]]
[[uk:TU10 (Xbox 360 Edition)]]
[[zh:Xbox 360版TU10]]