{{Infobox version
| title = TU8
| edition = Xbox 360
| date = January 30, 2013
| image = Xbox 360 Edition TU8.png
| image2 = 
| internal = Build 1.0.1.0167.0<br>Installer v0.0.8.1
| clientdl = [https://archive.org/download/Minecraft-Xbox360-TUs/Minecraft%20Xbox%20360%20Edition%20TUs/TU8/584111F7/000B0000/tu00000001_00000000 Download]
| prev = TU7
| next = TU9
}}

'''TU8''' is a version of ''[[Xbox 360 Edition]]'' released on January 30, 2013.<ref>{{cite | url = http://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-editions/minecraft-xbox-360-edition/mcx360-discussion/2064202-mcxbla-title-update-change-logs | title = Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition Patch change logs | website = Minecraft Forum | date = January 30, 2013}}</ref> This version is based on [[Java Edition 1.0.0]].

{{cvnote|TU8}}

== Additions ==
* Added the [[awkward potion]] to the [[Creative]] menu.

== Changes ==
* [[Blaze]]s now drop 0–2 [[glowstone dust]] when killed.
* Renamed "Download Content" menu to "''Minecraft'' Store".
* New photo frames for avatar items in the ''Minecraft'' Store.

== Fixes ==
* Fix for random crash on Kick Player.
* Fix for a random crash on loading the tutorial.
* Fix for freeze when writing on a sign as an autosave starts.
* Fix for crash when attempting to enter an online enabled game session after losing connection to the Xbox LIVE service.
* Performance improvement for the enchantment interface.
* Fix to display a message when monsters are nearby on trying to sleep in a bed.
* Fix for an issue causing blocks to reappear after being destroyed when the server is busy.
* Fix for experience orbs being invisible for a period of time when created.
* Fix to force a nether fortress, possibly parted or slivered, Blaze Spawner and Nether Wart to always be present in the Nether for a newly created world.
* Fix for autosave not working when the host has gone into an idle state.
* Fix to increase the spawn rate for mooshrooms.
* Fix to player experience level display in two player vertical splitscreen mode.
* Fix for Quick Move not being possible while holding something in the cursor.
* Fix for armor position on Bad Santa when sat down.
* Fix for magma cube hit boxes.
* Fix to show the aura of enchanted items for other players in an online game.
* Fix for tools enchanted with Unbreaking occasionally repairing themselves.
* Changes to improve breeding – Love mode status is now network synchronized and animals react more correctly if spawn limits are reached when breeding.
* Fix for issue with "Take Half" in the brewing stand interface.
* Fix to allow the map to be displayed when the player has turned off Display Hand.
* Fix for status effects being removed after using the nether portal.
* Fix to stop the item in hand being changed when traveling to/from the Nether.
* Fix for compass not pointing to the original spawn point after having been in the Nether.
* Fix to allow players to be able to eat food even if they are not allowed to build and mine.
* Fix to allow client players to toggle Custom Skin Animation.
* Fix for player gamertag border color being wrong after a respawn/dimension change.
* Fix for issue in splitscreen where it was possible to craft items without a player having the resources required.
* Fix to remove the love mode tooltip when animals are unable to enter love mode.
* Change to moderator option description in the Host and Player Options.
* Fix for the submerged edge of the world emitting a faint light.
* Fix for lighting issue with mobs in water.
* Fix to stop food being removed when feeding animals in creative Mode.
* Fix to stop bones being removed when taming wolves in creative Mode.
* Change to make baby wolves tame when born.
* Fix for blaze rods not being identified as fuel for a furnace.
* Fix for issue with sky lighting values making bedrock layer fully lit.

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== Navigation ==
{{Navbox Xbox 360 Edition versions}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:TU8}}

[[pt:Xbox 360 Edition TU8]]
[[ru:TU8 (Legacy Console Edition)]]
[[uk:TU8 (Xbox 360 Edition)]]
[[zh:Xbox 360版TU8]]